 Not presenting it well enough. Yeah, okay. And I've decided that here onwards for presentation, I'm going to be strict on you because we don't have time. Okay. So, firstly, the motivation wasn't motivating enough. Oh, okay. Like, and, like, presentations to me feel very different. Like, when you present to me, it feels different because I already know the video. Right. How it feels to someone else would be different. So, it's kind of hard for me to understand. But for me, when you, for example, like, when I say that the motivation isn't motivating enough, what I mean is that, what I mean is that, if you tell me that, oh, people have studied this in risk also, that's not what I mean because you can use it to motivate it. But what I really mean is, these risk people must also have talked about mechanisms. Yeah, they have. But you don't talk about the mechanisms. I want you to, in the motivation, motivate one of the mechanisms for which you think that experience might be better. For example, it could be that, I don't know, I'm making this up because I haven't read those papers, but you should, you should look into it and see. It could be that we really need to simulate in our head how the experience of winning or losing feels like. Or how the experience of having, you know, a good worker and a bad worker feels like to make our choices. And this, this, you know, clicking on the button and figuring out how many good and bad workers there are helps you understand two things at the same time. Your experience of, you know, of discovering that the worker was good or bad plus the probability of those. Maybe. I don't know. Okay, so, so what you're saying is I should try to spend more time on motivating the mechanism. On the psychology of why. On the psychological mechanism. Of why you think it makes a difference. Okay. Because just standing there are other worlds where people also find a difference makes it sound like you are doing it because others have done it before. And then it's completely not interesting. That makes you sound, that makes it sound like you're just copying others work. Whereas what you should do is you should think of those psychologies and then say why those psychologies are equally or even more interesting in this world. And that would make it sound more original. Okay. Uh, so why those mechanisms are more interesting here? Yeah. You know, at least why they're interesting and if possible why you think they're more interesting in this world or they could be more interesting. Right. And I want you to think deeply about it. Because that, that is motivation. The motivation should come from, if it's a behavioral talk, from a behavioral mechanism. And not like the more mechanical motivation that others have done it in other scenarios, I'm going to do it in this scenario. It just makes it sound dumb. And it's, and you're doing a huge disservice when you do that. You're making it sound repetitive work, which is not. Okay. Which is not. Um, so, um, can I interject? Yes. The problem is like in the lottery stuff, like people, there's no agreement on the mechanism. People have proposed a bunch of things, but, and also all of those mechanisms like don't really say why, like no one says that the experience is better. Fine, fine. So, you just propose some potential mechanisms why it can be better. It doesn't have to be the mechanisms, and the mechanisms in risk might not be the same as the mechanisms. Exactly. Right? And you can acknowledge it. But you should give us some reason to be interested to learn about this, which goes beyond others have done it in risk, I'm going to do it in here. Right. Right? So, you should be interested to study this, and it should be interesting enough that you can convince others that this is interesting. And what you gave us wasn't a reasonable reason to study it. I see. Okay. So, basically I'm going to propose something that why I think it could matter. Exactly. Because like, I don't have the evidence, and other people also don't have the evidence of exactly what it is. But I want you to see what they have. They must have proposed something in the book. Yeah, but like, none of their proposal says that experience is better. It's just different. They might have said why they think it's different. For example, sampling bias, like people draw smaller samples when they sample. That's a mechanism, but that doesn't help me. No, it's not a, that's not a mechanism. And there's also like, recency bias, but that's only a thing when you draw sample voluntarily. Wait, so, let's be clear here. Sampling bias is a behavioral pattern. Right. It's not a mechanism. A psychological mechanism is a bit different. Can we define psychological mechanism? Yeah. A psychological mechanism is going to say, like a psychological mechanism could be something like, losses are somehow, have a larger effect on human beings than gains. Oh. And this is saying that human beings inherently value something more and value other things less. I see. And then that can be used to explain some behavioral pattern. But a mechanism is not a pattern. Present bias is a pattern. And then you can try and explain present bias through a mechanism that maybe people are way better at thinking about things in the present, but they are worse at thinking about. I see. So, a mechanism is not about the pattern. A mechanism is what's going on in their head. Okay. Like what's the process in their head. And then a mechanism, and that might create a pattern of choices. Uh-huh. And the pattern of choices is directly observable, but the mechanism is not directly observable. Okay. Okay. So, maybe it's something like people like to think about probabilities in discrete, like. Exactly, right. So, think about that statement. People like to think of probabilities in a discrete world. Yeah. Right? This is a statement that you can't directly see in the data. No. Because the data doesn't show you what people are thinking. Yeah. So, that is a mechanism. Right? Right. So, I want you to think about some mechanisms. And clearly, the first mechanisms you might come up with might not be that great, but at least think of some. And ideally, think of some which will be believable. Okay. Right? Okay. So, now it's clear. Right? So, that is what I mean by motivating the paper. There should be psychological mechanisms. And in some way, this is what motivates all of us to do behavioral work, because we think there is something that's going on which goes beyond. Right. Right? Okay. So, that's where the motivation was lacking. Then, you didn't describe the results in the intro. Yeah. I realized that. Yeah. Okay. Good. Because I got sidetracked by people asking about the results. Yeah. Yeah. So, it should come in like the second of the thought slide. Okay. You should describe the main results in the intro itself. Yeah. Why do we care? Yes. Yeah. It's the same as policy implications, whatever. Like, let's not get, I think that's what I meant, but I also had fever, so I don't know why I wrote that. But, when you say experience, you're going to get questions very early. Right. When you say experience, you should define experience early on in your science. Okay. And, you should say that experience just means, you actually said it also yesterday when you had to answer Amman's question. You basically just meant that you get to observe the realizations. Yeah. Multiple realizations of the random process. Right? That's what you mean by experience. Exactly. So, I could either describe to you the data generation process or I could let you observe realizations, like a finite number of realizations from the data generation process. Mm-hm. So, one is description, the other one I'm going to call experience. Okay. So, I want you to kind of explain that early on so that people know what you're getting into early on. Otherwise, people get kind of sidetracked. Okay. So, then the next big thing is, you are not spending enough time thinking about your audience. Okay. Right? You have some people who are interested to know about your work, but they're not experimentalists. So, if you throw out words like between subject design, five by two, this is like, I don't know, this is like Portuguese to them. I don't know what this means. There were no order effects. What does it mean? Right? It doesn't mean anything to these people. I see. Okay. And then, some people might not ask you because they might think they are interjecting too much if they ask you about each of these things one by one. You just can't do that. You have to explain everything. Okay. So, in fact, even when I present in a behavioral seminar, I would generally explain what between means. I would say that, look, what this would mean is a different group of subjects face the question about Hispanics and a different group of subjects face the questions about Asians. Okay. I would explain each and everything. Okay. Redundancy is not that big of a problem when it comes to explanation. Yeah. What is problem is if you're not speaking to your crowd, because your audience is, right, they might not all be experimentalists. And, in fact, most of your audience wasn't experimentalists, right? Andres isn't. Good point. Andres is, yeah. So, especially. So, you're saying I should explain everything? It takes just one line, right? Okay. Just one line. Between subjects, one line. Yeah, that's true. Order effects, one line. Right. Not just that. I want you to not, because the way you did it is, like, sometimes you don't even explain why you did what you did. And that's another issue with how you present. So, let me give you an example. Wait. I don't explain how I did what I did? You don't explain why you did what you did. Oh, I thought I'd try to do that this time. Not enough? Not even close to being enough. Okay. And the other issue is, the way you do it is first you say what you did, and then you explain why you did it. Right. That shouldn't be the order. Oh. The order should be that. Okay. So, let's go through it. So, I want to have, so let me try and put myself in your office. I want to have subjects come in, and I want them to update about Asian and Hispanic workers. I wouldn't first say that I am going to do it in a between design. I would say that here are the design considerations that I worry about. Number one, I worry about if I ask the same subject about Hispanic and Asian workers, then the order in which they see Hispanic or Asian first might affect the next thing that they answer. And I don't want that to happen, so my design is going to be a between design where subjects will. Ah. First I call, like, explain the concern, then I explain the solution. Because that's how people think of it. A question is followed by answer, and not the other way around. Right. Ah. And you did for, you did it for a bunch of different things. Um, and in all of them I would first put in what is the concern and explain what the concern is. Like, think of it as teaching. You're teaching people that, you know, this could be a concern. Some of them might not even thought of it as a concern. But first tell them, look, this is a concern. I want to be careful, so this is my solution. Okay. That's a very good point. Yeah, I totally flipped it. You, you flipped it and I noticed. It's not the best way to present. Because, ah, in people's head, I think they first want to understand a why and then a solution to it, rather than a solution. And then the question of what it is a solution to. Right. I guess, I guess presenting a problem and then you have a solution, it makes it more interesting. Makes it, exactly. That's why we are doing it. Um, I want you to have, okay, so when you say MPL incentivized by BDM, that's just incorrect. Because MPL is a mechanism, BDM is another mechanism. They are very similar. MPL is just incentivized as an MPL. It basically says that, you know, there are multiple rows, I choose one row randomly. Right. But that's also just the BDM. They are the same, but it doesn't mean MPL is, ah, you know, incentivized by a BDM. Okay. BDM is just a different mechanism. This is like saying... Wait, but then what's BDM? I mean, BDM is different because you make a single choice. Oh, but like the math is the same. The math is the same, but BDM is, ah, there's a single choice. You're going to make the choice, I'm going to draw a random number. If it's lower, I do this. If it's higher, I do that. Right. Whereas MPL is, I'll ask you to make a bunch of choices. Uh-huh. Yeah, one of those choices would count. Right. I would pick them randomly and that would count. Oh. Okay. So I guess like depending on the implementation, it's different. It's not about the implementation. I see. But also as a game, they are different because... That's true. Different choices. You make many choices and one of them you make one choice. Right? I see. So don't use the line, I incentivize MPL by BDM. Just say, I use an MPL. Okay. So then that's much easier to explain. Much easier. And then you don't even have to use the word BDM. Again, many people might not know what a BDM is. Yeah. Good point. And you can show them what it means. That you make a choice in each one of them and one of them is true. Because you're presenting at the Applied Brown Bank next week. I'm presenting a different one. Oh, a different... Yeah. Too many papers. Okay. Which is a good thing. Okay. So, but... Right? You want to show us... Yeah. If I present this at the Applied, I definitely would have to change the strategy. Okay. Good. Good. Um... Hmm... I would have a flow chart. Very early on. Oh. When I talk about the design. Where I show them the whole experiment before going over it part by part. Okay. Because what you currently did is, you said that, okay, so here is a part where they're asked about the prior. Then I'm going to have a part where they see the realizations. Then I'm going to ask about the studios. Then I... But when you're talking about one part, I still don't know what's coming next. I see. So you're saying when I introduce the overall experimental structure, I just show the flow chart. First the flow chart. Okay. And then you... At the same flow chart, you also mentioned that subjects know that they're going to report a posterior and the wage offer. Uh-huh. Because this is something that Andres was asking, that do they know in this stage that this is what they're going to do next, right? So that will tell people that learning was incentivized because they knew that they're going to make those posterior beliefs and then... Right. Okay. So like... So one thing I worry about is like... Because... Like when I talk about the experimental structure early on without explaining it in detail, I get sidetracked by questions that people ask about the details. No, no. Just show them like something like... Just show them enough like there's a prior, then there is learning, then we elicit posterior, and then there is wage offer. Okay. That's it. And the learning can be in one of two environments, and then you can talk about treatments here, that you know, the learning can be in one of two environments, and for each of them, I do it in... Or you have three, right? Right? You have like a forced 11, you have the endogenous, and maybe forced 20. Yeah. And then description. And then description. And then for each of them there is Asian or Hispanic. Yeah. Right? So I would just show them this structure, and I would tell them here that... I would tell them exactly the information that they know at each point. For example, if at the learning stage they already know this is going to happen, then I would have it on the slides. Okay. Right? So just say that there are four stages. There's a prior stage, learning stage, posterior, and wage offer. Uh-huh. And I'm going to describe each of them in detail now. But just know that... Okay. But just know that they go through these... Okay. And at every point just tell people what exactly do they know comes after. Okay. Right? And... Okay. Um... Um... Um... Then the other point that was important, uh... is that... So there's... there's other features of your design that you didn't tell people. And then you kind of... Like these are things that you knew and you've kind of forgotten. For example, there's a reason we made the bins of size 2 and not size 1. Right? Oh, the... Yeah. What was the reason? I think the idea is we don't want complete information because, like, you're never going to get it in the real world. We want there to be the space of wiggling. And also... Exactly. So that people can wiggle. Right? Right. And you've forgotten this and you never talk about it in the experiment, but this is part of the design. There's a reason why the bins are size 2. You should talk about it in the design phase. That, look, you could have had a design with the bins of size 1. And then the mean has to be one number. There's no other mean that is possible. Right. When you report the mean. But we're making it two numbers. So wiggling is possible. And when you talk about that, then next when you talk about the results in the description, then you can't say that, oh, they are miscalculating. This is because you allow for wiggling in the workspace. Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Good point. Right? So, yeah, that was the worst. For that I felt like, what is Christina doing? We put it on purpose. There's a reason this design is in place. Yeah. Yeah, I totally forgot to talk about it. So, not talking about it in the design section was an okay mistake, but then interpreting this as like over-biasing was the bigger mistake. Oh. Because you're allowing for this in the first place. Yeah, right. And then someone asked, but is this possible with the bins? Yeah, you did all these calculations at some point. Yeah, that's right. So what is possible with the bins? Right. Yeah. What are you doing? You are kind of letting your past self down. Your past self has done all of this work. This is a very well thought out thing. You just didn't talk about it. You need to talk about it. Yeah. Yeah, no, like I think I'm just like forgetting parts of what I did. This is what I felt. Not good. Yeah. You can't do this. Okay. How do we make sure this doesn't happen? Well, now I know. Sorry. Now I know. No, but like this cannot happen going forward. Right. For anything. You need to write down everything. Yeah, I'm writing it right now. Yeah. Okay. This part was the lowest point of the talk. When I was thinking that like she knows it. She has designed it with this in mind. This was bad. There's no, there's no forgiveness for this part. Okay. Okay. Okay. What else? I don't know. I mean, many of the questions that people were asking, you already have the data. You should have an answer to that. Like it's not written up. Like you know, what happens in the endogenous learning, how do you write? Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Independentachenite, looking at do I learn more if it's Asian? Do I, do I draw more if it's Hispanic? One of that stuff you should, you should just have answers to it Right. And you just, and if you, if you can't say any further like look, this is all I can say and I can't do it any further, that should be in your slides that this is all I can say Okay. because then people can think on your behalf and tell you something. Wow, okay. Right? But you almost made it sound like you haven't even looked at the data, which is not true. Yeah, I mean I have, I just haven't really thought about what I can say about it. Okay, okay. You need to drop everything and do that. Okay. Yeah, because I had it in the appendix. Like... You clearly sounded like you didn't look at it. Whereas I knew you did look at it. We have talked about it many times. Right. Again, like that just feels you're not giving it everything that you have. Okay, so the question is like where do I talk about the stuff that happens in the endogenous treatment? Like after the main results? After the main results. Okay. Okay. After the main results. Because there are two things that are puzzling in your table. One is that description does badly. And the other is that endogenous and exogenous are different. Uh-huh. And this is the part that would explain just the latter thing. Why is endogenous and exogenous different? Yeah. I don't think you can explain the... The description versus experience, we don't know how to explain it. Yeah. Yeah. Which is fine. But the endogenous versus exogenous, I think you should try and explain it. You might have to run other treatments, but like this is the point. This was your chance of like getting more feedback on it and you kind of missed it. So you should have had it. Of course you also ran out of time. Uh... Yeah, I was sick for a while so that was... No, no, of course, of course. No, but also in the presentation you ran out of time. Right? Yeah. There wasn't enough time to talk about that stuff. Yeah. But this has to be done. Like this is priority. This is about getting a job. Right. This is the job market paper. So this has to be the main horse that you are on. Right. And the other things can come. Okay, so I really need you to fill up your act on these things. Like the presentation needs to be sharper and think about the answers before you keep the answer. Because some of the answers you can do a better job on these answers. Yeah. Because you know. You just didn't... It's just a matter of practice. But... Okay, so... There are many, uh, like micromanagement kind of, uh, feedback that I'm giving. Like, oh, show the results early, yada, yada. But, uh... Well, that's good, good feedback to get, so... Yeah. The, the big picture that you should always remember is, think about the crowd. This is something that, depending on what the crowd is, you should explain certain things more or less. Like, you should look at the people and think about, okay, what is it that they already know? And what is the gap that I need to bridge? Uh, this is crucial. Like, this is something that is crucial. This is, uh, this is a skill that you have to do. Right. So, but like, for example, like, I had thought that, you know, most of these theory behavioral people probably know what an MPL is, so... No. No. I mean, MPL is such a, such a niche thing. Is it? It's very niche. Oh. I think it's, it's very experimental. Okay. I guess, like, I have a distorted, like... No, no, but who is theory behavioral? Like, like, like, Christoph is theory. Oh. Christoph is theory. You look at his website. Sure. He doesn't have behavioral written on there. Okay, but like, like, uh, Burkhard runs experiments. Who knows what an MPL is? That's right. That's right. But you want to explain to everyone, and not, not even like the medium person, but like the... Like the lowest percentile? That's right. That's right. That's who you are. Also, because Christoph always pays attention to what you're saying, has given you feedback many times. Right. He has to be one of your target audience, when you're talking, right? Right. And then you have to be extra nice to him when you explain everything, because he just doesn't know all this stuff. Okay, so then what about like, for example, if I present for Babu, then... For Babu, you can take some... Look, for Babu, it's going to be 15 minutes. Right. Exactly. So for a bunch of stuff, you can't do anything. But Babu is a seminar in experimental economics. Right. Exactly. So then it's fine. Then you can take certain things as given. So the five by two between, people would understand. But not in our. Our seminar series is theory and behavior. Okay. So we're going to be purely theory people. And you also have much more time, 50 minutes. So you should explain more. Okay. So... So like, what do you think is okay to skip in the Babu? Like, I think I don't have to... No, no, that you have to decide. So you have to learn how to make these executive choices. So I'm not going to micromanage those. But... Think about it. Yeah. Think about it. I'll tell you the goal. I won't tell you how to reach there. Okay. The goal is that... People should know what the paper was about, even a month after you're presented. Ah. They should know what the paper was about. And whatever you need to tell them to know what the paper was about and what was cool about it, those things have to make it in those 15 minutes. Now it's up to you to decide, and this is really not an easy task, but it's up to you to decide how you manage to do that. Mm-hmm. But you have to somehow manage to do it. That people knew what Christina's paper was on and what was the main thing and why it's interesting. Right. That has to be there. If that's not there, then what are we even doing? Okay. Right? Cool. Shall we go to the talk together? Oh, yeah. Let's go. And then I need to go to the... Do you think, like, I didn't talk enough about why we should care about this? Because I thought I kind of did... Kind of not enough. I mean, like... Discrimination... Modination wasn't motivating. But, like, obviously we should care about discrimination, right? No, I think that was fine, but, like, I'm trying to think what I think to an extent that. Um... I'm trying to think what was... I'm trying to think what was...ER Olá What was the definition than me for quite so much? Okay. Okay. Well, I I think about mmM and er from China, that was fine. But, I mean, it was early Spirit. And it's... Let's turn it Using PociiAswam..