 Always good. I like to them all right? I'm young. I mean, . Yeah, . Yeah. Hypocrite learning. Yeah. Oh, she does . My sister knows . Long time no see. Yeah. I think . I know . Really? Yeah. I know . Oh, yeah. That's when . Yeah. Yeah. I have a little bit more stuff. Nice. Yeah. Yeah. Congrats on the post-op. I heard . Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. I'm still . I'm still . But when that's off my plate, I want to . Yeah. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. Should we start or . Okay. Hello, everyone. Thank you for coming. I think that Christian is going to start now. Okay. Thanks, Dennis. And thank you to everyone for coming. And this is a work in progress. So we would really love your feedback. So today I'm going to be talking about the peer effects, the long-run peer effects of immigrant kids in Texas public high schools and, sorry, public schools on US-born students. It's a joint project with Brianna Ballas at UC Merced and also Derek Rory at U Chicago, who are both UC Davis alums. So it's very much a UC Davis project. So today I'm going to go through motivation, context in Texas, the empirical strategy and datasets. And I will describe the sample characteristics in our data. And also I will show you some preliminary results. So to motivate this paper, there has been a steadily rising share of immigrants in the US ever since the 1960s. And this slide shows you some statistics about the share of immigrants. So in 2021, about 3% of children in the US were born in foreign countries and 25% are from immigrant families. And this immigrant share is larger in cities and especially southern border states, which Texas is one. And in Texas, 35% of children are growing up in immigrant families. So there's a lot of literature on peer effects that studies short run outcomes. However, there's very limited evidence on how do immigrant peers influence the long run outcomes of US-born students, such as college enrollment, completion, and labor market outcomes. So if we think about the peer effects of immigrant kids, there's a few potential channels. So the first one could be reallocation of classroom resources. So for example, there's more English language learners among immigrant students. So that requires more resources from teachers and schools. However, schools that receive more immigrants could potentially also have a more diverse learning environment. So that's benefits and costs. And also schools do receive funding for ESL programs per Title III of the ESEA. And there are two sorts of spill overs we can think about. So one is positive spill overs. So some papers have shown that immigrant students have stronger work ethic. They are higher achieving. And that can positively impact the outcomes of US students. And negative spill overs could also happen because there has been more restrictive immigration policies in the last several decades. And that creates legal uncertainty and also limits economic opportunities for immigrants. And discrimination against immigrant kids can also reduce educational investments, kind of becoming like a self-perpetuating like vicious cycle. So there's also cultural and language differences between immigrant kids and also US-born kids. That can also create classroom frictions. So the key research questions we're interested in studying in this project is, one, how does immigrant peer exposure affect college and labor market outcomes? And two, we're also interested in seeing how immigrant peer exposure affect political outcomes. So for that we're going to be studying voting behavior, participation in elections, and also donations to political campaigns. So this is kind of like a broad overview of our research agenda for this entire project. We're planning on splitting this into like different papers. So the context in Texas. So we are choosing Texas to study this because Texas is a very unique state with a unique composition of immigrants. So a related paper by Figlio et al. 2024. They study short-run peer effects in Florida. So Florida's immigrant composition comes mostly from Latin American countries. However, the top country is Cuba because Florida is next to Cuba. And Mexican immigrants only comprise 6% of immigrants in Florida. And there's also a large percentage from Asian countries and also Europe. However, Texas has very different immigrant characteristics. So one, Texas shares a southern border with Mexico. So we would expect more Mexican immigrants. And that is indeed the case. So the top country of immigrant origins in Texas is Mexico. So 50% of immigrants in Texas come from Mexico, followed by 6% from India and other countries. So we can see that Mexican immigrants comprise the majority of immigrants in Texas, whereas in Florida it's more mixed. And also there has been an immigration boom for Mexican immigrants post the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act. So this is a graph that shows you the immigration flows by country of origin. The orange red one here, that's Mexican immigrants. And we can see that post 1960s there's a dramatic spike. And there's also been shifting immigration policies and also education policies in Texas. So the Supreme Court case, Pleyler versus Stowe, basically ruled that schools cannot deny free public education to undocumented immigrant children. And also in 1996, a new federal law kind of tight enforcement of immigration and also strengthened grounds for deportation and also limited access to public benefits for immigrants. In 2001, Texas allowed the immigrant who, sorry, Texas passed a law to allow undocumented immigrants to qualify for in-state tuition at public universities. And I think that's the first in the country to do so. So there's been, you know, like, there's been very mixed policy kind of responses to immigrants. On some levels, you know, we have education policies that expanded opportunities for immigrants. But also we have immigration policies that are limiting those opportunities. And post 9-11, basically the pattern, the broader pattern in Texas is much more restrictive immigration policies. There's increased federal state cooperation and also more deportations. And especially in 2017, Texas, as Senate Bill 4, outlawed sanctuary cities and also required local law enforcement to cooperate with ICE. So all of this is to say that Texas is a very unique state, which provides us with a unique context to study immigrant kids and their peer effects. So next I will talk about the, yeah, Monica. Just to benchmark, do you have some sense of the total immigrant population in Texas? What share are undocumented broadly? That's a good question. So I don't really know off the top of my head, but I think there are some estimates. So I will look that up and I will get back to you. Thank you. Obviously, like, we cannot observe who's undocumented, so we cannot see that in the data. Quick question. So the short-term evidence is mixed, but I guess I'm thinking for achievement, like, would that not just be captured by some, like, lag that achievement might matter, but eventually that fades out. But then for the political, like, disposition of students, like, I can see how that might have a long-run effect. But I'm wondering what you're thinking is about the long-run college going and wage effects. Like, what's the, why would the short-term not inform the long-term? Yeah, that's a good point. So I think the short-run impacts can definitely be a mechanism through which peer effects influence longer-run outcomes. So, for example, if more exposure results in, say, higher test scores, then that can be a contributing mechanism towards higher rates of enrollment in college and also perhaps more labor market earnings. So we're definitely considering that as a mechanism, and we're going to be testing that. So you're just kind of testing whether this achievement effect is persistent over time. Is that right? Yeah, that's one way to think about it. Yeah, I think so. Okay, so there are two major challenges to identifying the causal effects of peers on US-born students. So one is data challenges. So there is a lack of data on long-run outcomes of students. And especially there are few data sets that track immigrant exposure and also long-run outcomes. And even those that do, for example, the Texas admin data, they lack detailed controls. So, for example, they don't have families for the students which can limit our use of family fixed effects. And the second one is the empirical challenges. So schools with more immigrants, they differ in characteristics from the schools with fewer immigrants. And the typical approach in the literature is to exploit within school across cohort variation in the share of immigrants. And the key assumption for that approach is that there's no movement of students in response to peer composition. However, there is a literature on native flight that do find a significant movement in response to immigrants. So that renders this approach invalid. Yes, Maryam? Well, maybe you just answered my question with that last statement. I thought that literature was not based on cohort, cross-cohort variation in peers, but it sounds like you're saying it is. The literature finding that there is movement in response to immigrant peers, is that based on... Oh, that's not based on the cohort. Okay. Yeah. So I have always thought the cross-cohort variation was actually supposed to get us around this problem. Yeah. So we will be actually showing some results on native mobility using different strategies. And we do find significant movement. To the cross-cohort. Interesting. So I will talk about that later. So to solve the data challenges, we construct a novel administrative data set by first using the Texas birth index. So that data set has the universe of births in Texas. And we use that to determine siblings, which allows us to utilize a family fixed effect strategy. And the next step is to... We merge that to the data set from Texas Education Agency. So the TEA tracks achievement and also behavioral outcomes for Texas public school students. And next we merge that to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board data. And the TEA-GCB follows college enrollment, also completion in Texas. So all the Texas public colleges. And we also merge to the Texas Workforce Commission data. So they have the data on quarterly earnings of Texas residents from the UI records. And also we merge to voting records and voter registration data from the Texas Secretary of State and Federal Election Commission. And that gives us voter registration, election participation, and also donations. We obtain this data in a consolidated form from a private company called L2. And also, I forgot to add here, but we're also merging the data to NSC, so National Student Clearinghouse, which gives us all of the colleges that Texas residents attend, so that we can track people who attend the colleges out of state. Sorry, could you...so use birth index? So then you're requiring your sample to have a sibling born in Texas? Yeah, so good point. So we are going to be using different strategies. We've kind of progressively imposed stricter limitations on the sample. And basically, the idea behind the family fixed effects is that we show that using the traditional across cohort within school variation actually doesn't get us to idiosyncratic variations because there is movement in response to peer exposure. So then the idea behind the family fixed effects is we are comparing now within family across sibling variation in peer exposure. And the assumption behind that is the same family would be making decisions of schooling for siblings in the same way. But that actually leads me up to the identification strategy. So I will talk about that in more detail in a bit. Can I also just ask about the birth...so you're merging the birth certificate to the Texas Education Agency data. And you're doing that using...so are you determining siblings based on parents' names? Yeah, yeah, so that's a good point. So we are matching siblings based on parent names. And also I think there's marriage data. So for kids with both parents, we use both parents' names. For kids with only single moms, for example, we use the last name of the mom. And we run through a few different methods. Like we do like first precise matching and then we also do some fuzzy matching. So we have different versions. Okay, so what do you do with like a single mom, a woman who has a baby without being married and then she... Or maybe it's not about being married, but then she has a partner on the next birth certificate. Like... I guess I'm talking about half siblings really. So you've got these siblings and you've got...I don't even know how much it matters, but you... The definition of siblings seems super important here. Like a person, two kids who have one, the same mom, but a different dad. Are they used in the family fixed of X model or are you only looking at intact families or... That's a good point. If you're a single kid of a single mom, but you're...then your mom partners with someone later, do you count that kid as a sibling? Yeah, good point. So I think currently we're not counting half siblings. But I think we can try to go back and see if we can capture that and then maybe that'll give us another version. So the reason I think it's important is because it may not be important if you're just using like families that stay in the same structure over time. I would imagine changes in family structure would be correlated with the probability of moving. And whether it's correlated with the type of community you move to is different. But it's worth thinking about down the road, I think. That's a great point. Thank you. To add on, I also think you want to say something about who is at risk of being merged in your data and how different they look, even just on the X's and the birth certificate data than everybody else. So like the people who have siblings versus everyone else? Well, like the kind of family structures that Marianne is talking about or what you expect from the census for people moving in and out. Like the Breuer and McCrary paper tries to say something about this because they were using Texas and California data for what they were doing and they were doing some sort of family fixed effects thing, I think, right? Yeah. They were doing an RD. But anyway, just thinking about who is this representative for and how many, you know, like who are your results representative for because of the way you had to create the sample? Yeah, okay. So like, so for example, start with the University of Texas births and you're merging those on to kids you're observing eight years later in the TEA data because they're eight when you first observed them, right? Sure, yeah. So a bunch of those kids probably, their parents probably moved to a different state. Right. Those kids, so are the, when you're left with only the kids who've been merged on to the TEA data, are those kids representative of all births in Texas? Okay. They're not, but maybe it doesn't matter if their outcome variables or their, you know, variables that you have information on look the same across the more selected sample versus the full sample. And I know that Texas birth and index doesn't have a lot of information. No, it doesn't. Yeah. I've talked about using it, but like, those are the things that I think are important to think about. You might be able to say something pretty interesting about moving even before, even before they get to school. But. Yeah, that's a really good point. So we do look at like, you know, characteristics of the full sample of students, the native students, and also we compare them to the people who are merged, like the family, the siblings who are merged to the data. So I actually do have a table, which I'll show later. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So next, I will talk about how we classify immigrant students. So the TA data has a flag for immigrants. So that's basically the definition provided by Title III. So basically, anyone who is not born in the US and also did not attend school in any US school in the last three years is flagged as an immigrant in this data. And we use three complementing measures of immigrants. So one is recent immigrants, which is just the flag provided by the TA. And the second one is we basically flag anyone who has, we capture anyone who has been ever flagged as an immigrant in the data. And we use those people as our immigrant student sample. And the idea for that is, you know, if you were flagged, you know, in like 2000, but not flagged in like 2006, we still count you as an immigrant. And then the third one is, yeah. No, you finish. Oh. The third one is people who are ever flagged as an immigrant or people who are English language learners. So the idea behind this is English language learners are much more likely to be immigrant students and also second generation immigrants. So we think of this as like a broadest measure, which includes second generation kids. So is this TEA flag ultimately based on self-reported data? That's a good point. I actually don't know. So I will look into that. I mean, I, I don't remember ever having to provide some actual documentation. And I don't, I mean, this is administrative data. I don't think there's any survey questions in these data. I think they're probably, so I don't know, I don't know where the flag comes from because I didn't know there was a TEA flag, but it's hard for me to imagine they're asked. But then how are they? I don't know. I mean, usually people are making assumptions like where they're born, like a combination of you got the information that they're born in the US from the other. Yeah, but you're not going to have that information from the TEA. Yeah, so unfortunately we. I'm getting really confused. Oh, so we do not have country of birth. So that's why we're relying on this flag and also extrapolating from it. Wait, but the previous sample was based on the birth certificate data. But that's the native sample, the native student sample. I see. Yeah. Yeah, so we are. Oh, okay, I see. Yeah, sorry. But still I have this question about like where does this, is this TEA flag ultimately coming from data that's self-reported by the families? Because I certainly don't remember ever when my kids have been in school having to provide a birth certificate copy, for example. And I guess that relates to this earlier point that you made about kind of undocumented immigrants and is somebody going to say, yeah, my kid was not born in the US if they're. Yeah, we will definitely look into that. Thank you. And Mary? Also like if you were born abroad to US citizens, you're not an immigrant really. Like you're kind of an immigrant. Oh, that's true. And it's been, it's surprisingly, it's a larger share of people than you might guess. That's a very good point. Thank you. Well, if you want to consider them immigrants, but they're sort of different from other immigrants I think in terms of what you think their spillovers might be. That's a really good point. Yeah, that's a really good point. We actually haven't thought about that. So that's great. Do you imagine any of the immigrants through the birth birth? No. Like you might. Like it's possible. Like you could get kind of the origin maybe for some. So the birth index is people who are born in Texas and by definition these immigrants are not born in the US so. Well, yeah. They might have siblings. Oh, but you wouldn't have age for them. Yeah. Yeah. So we don't match them to the immigrants. Steven? Sorry, just a quick question. Is the TA flag, it's both not born in the US and did not attend school or is it either? Both. Yeah. Thanks. Monica? So it seems like following up on that question, one way you could maybe get. So I would imagine the kind of reporting bias you would be concerned about is somebody that's not born in the US but the family reports them as having been born in the US. Right. That's if they're self-reporting. If they're self-reporting. So you could take that sample and see how many of them you can find in the Texas birth records. Now you might also not find them because they were born in, you know, wherever, California. But it might give you some sense of what's an upper bound for the kind of missing cases. Right. Do you know what I mean? Like, here are all the people that said that their kids were born in the US. What fraction of those can you find in the Texas birth certificate data? Right. That's a good point. Thank you. Okay. Okay. If there's no other questions, then I will move on. So we define cumulative immigrant exposure across grades 1 to 12 using this equation. So basically, we're just calculating the sum of all of the A-prognosis shares in each grade up to grade G and then weighting it by the number of times we observe the student. So the main identification strategy we use is family fixed effects, which is also used by Figlio et al. So the variation here is within family across sibling variation in the exposure to immigrant kids. So this is the equation. And basically, we have on the left hand side the outcomes for student I. And on the right hand side, we have the share of immigrants and also fixed effects. So we have family fixed effects, school year fixed effects, and also grade year fixed effects. So the identification assumption here is after controlling for family fixed effects, exposure to immigrant kids is idiosyncratic across cohorts. Okay. So next, I will describe the sample characteristics. So we use the... Yeah, Mary? Sorry. You can imagine that it... Why grade? Why not classroom? Especially for kids in K6? Yeah, that's a good point. So unfortunately, we don't have classroom before, like, I think 2005. So we have very limited data on that. So we cannot use it. Okay. It might be nice to sort of see if that's better, like, you know, to check for your sample, how different it looks if you use classroom versus the whole grade. Yeah, that's a good point. So I will look at actually what years we have in the classroom and see maybe we can do some sort of tests. Okay. So, right. We used 1993 to 2003 first grade cohorts. And that gives us about 3 million students. Our native born sample is students who are born in Texas and with siblings. So that enables us to use the family fixed effects. And also we used it restricted to students who are never English language learners. So that rules out... So that means they're less likely to be second generation immigrants. So this is a graph of school districts in Texas. So we can see that basically along the southern border, there's more immigrants. So that makes sense. And also there's also more immigrants in school districts that are in major metropolitan centers. So, for example, I think that's Houston maybe? Or... No, that's Houston. That's Dallas, Fort Worth. That's Austin. Okay. And this graph shows the cumulative exposure measured in ninth grade by first grade cohort. So, from the left to the right on the x-axis, you have the first grade cohort year. And the blue line is all immigrants. And the red line is Hispanic immigrants. So, basically, the vast majority of immigrant kids in our sample are Hispanic. And this is a Box-Whisker plot that shows the variation in immigrant peers within districts. So, we can see that in a lot of districts, there's considerable variation in the shared immigrants across schools. What's in the... I'm sorry, what's on the horizontal axis? Oh, that's basically just ordering school districts by the exposure. So, from the smaller to the larger ones. You know, you... Yeah, it seems like it should go the other way around, right? There should be more variation within the smaller districts, should there? I don't think that's necessarily true, because in larger districts, there's usually more schools. So, I think... Oh, I see. This is pulling all the schools. It's not within... There's no within school piece here. No, yeah, it's within districts, yeah. Okay. So, that is just across schools at a point in time, right? This is capturing both across schools within a district and over time. Uh, good point. I believe this is, like, averaged across time. Okay. Yeah. So, you... Okay, so for a given school, you figure out what's the immigrant exposure averaged across all years, and then this is the variance of that variable across schools within a district? I think so, but I'm not certain, so let me go actually check that. Okay, so here's a table for some summary statistics. So, the three columns are the immigrant sample, the native-born sample, and also the people who are merged to the Texas birth index data. So, that's the family merge. So, on the left-hand side, we have some characteristics. So, race, English as a second language, participation, speaking Spanish at home, and then also some behavioral outcomes, and also longer-run outcomes. So, we can see that, um, basically, the, uh, immigrants in our data are much more likely to be Hispanic, uh, compared to native-born kids. And, obviously, much more likely to be, uh, English as a second language learner, and also speaking Spanish at home. And, they also have, uh, lower, uh, longer-run outcomes, so lower rates of enrollment in college, and also lower likelihood to be employed. But, um, sorry. Do you, you, this was, like, you don't need the, the immigrants, it's anybody who was an immigrant at any point in your data. You don't have the same, like, could be, if they left the state or they left the country, are they a zero or they drop out? So, you mean, like, so, for example, if we observe someone who is an immigrant in, uh, In third grade. In third grade, but then they, yeah. Are they a zero for everything else? No, I think we do include them. Yeah, because we calculated exposure by using the immigrant share, so when they are- So, you mean their X's that you have listed here? Their two-year enrollment, their longer-run, their employment. Oh, yeah, so, they're not here. Yeah. Okay. Monica? The log earnings numbers seem a little bit weird, because you've got much lower rates of college attendance and employment for the immigrant versus native, for example, but the log earnings are almost identical. Yeah, so, I think that's probably because log earnings is conditional on having, like, are unconditional on being employed. So, could be that people who are employed, their log earnings are similar, but I will check that. So, that's a good point. Just, it might be worth just double checking that there's not a data. Is it also different because the average of log earnings is actually the geometric mean and not the, not the arithmetic mean of the trick? You log and then you take the average of logs? Mm-hmm. I think it's more sensitive to our players. Yeah. That's a good point. I'm not sure. So, we definitely need to check that. It's also a little bit weird, I think, in a summary statistics table to be, I mean, I guess you've got the share employed, so you could do conditional earnings, but it's a little bit strange if basically what you're trying to show is just kind of the immigrant sample is more economically disadvantaged. Mm-hmm. It feels a little weird to just do the earnings conditional on being employed. Yeah, that's a good point. I think I got lost somewhere way back. The final family were, I thought I understood how you were identifying immigrants, but they're not, for the most part, they're not going to be in that Texas birth register. Right, no, they're not. So then how are you identifying siblings? Oh, we identify siblings only for the native sample. Oh, you only, right, you only need the immigrant, okay, so you only need the immigrants to get a share of immigrants in your classroom. Yeah, exactly. Okay, so then the final family merge is basically all natives. Yeah. So this is kind of going back to what Marian was saying before. You do see some, I think, somewhat different outcomes. Like, you see 8.5% of native-born students are English as a second language, but then when you go to the merge, it's only 4%. Mm-hmm. It's half as large. So I think this is sort of going back to the original, this is giving you some information about that question she asked about, which I think is really important, about how representative is your sample, and what are they representative of once you've done that matching? Right. Yeah, no, that's a really good point. Uh, Cassie? Just to understand, like, what we're supposed to take away from this slide, like, we're looking at outcomes just for this final poem, right? And we want to see how it represents, like, the immigrant shares just to get a sense of what the exposure is. It's not like we're comparing immigrant long-run outcomes to native- No. Yeah. Yeah. No, but like here- I guess what I wanted to jump to is, like, their future outcomes are probably less important than just seeing, like, isn't there a free lunch or SED variable in the school data? Yeah, so, and- Yeah, we definitely do have, we are trying to get free lunch into this, but- Oh, is it? For some reason it's not in here, so- Oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I'm just thinking, like- I will practice. What we, what, what this slide I think we want to know more is, one, how compare, how the native-born compares to your final analytic sample, but then we also want to know how exposure to immigrants differs from exposure to native-born students. Right? Sorry, I'm, I don't understand. What do you- So, like, I, I feel like this slide is mixing two modes, right? Like, we want to know that immigrants are either similar or dissimilar to native-born students. Well, it's not really about whether immigrants are similar or dissimilar. It's more about, like, what are, what are the characteristics of the immigrants? Right. And also, what are the characteristics of the natives, right? Right. Which is more about, like, the, like, the, the feature of the exposure, right? And, but the, the final two columns is more about representative- Right. Right. Right. The sample. So, I just, I feel like separating those, those concepts out might be helpful. Okay, yeah. To, to, to, so that we know, like, this isn't a comparison of, like, immigrant outcomes, which the final panel kind of implies. Except for the native points versus final family marriage. Right. Yeah. We're, we're more interested in, like, how do the characteristics compare? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, this is, actually, I just want to reiterate past this point, because this is why I lost the thread for a few minutes, right? It was like, we're seeing these outcomes for immigrants. Because we don't really care what the outcomes for the immigrants are in this question, in the, in the purpose of your paper, right? So, I'm thinking about, oh, now I'm thinking about, but then there's this merge sample, and why are the immigrants relative to this merge sample? So, it is kind of conflating these two, two things, and I think even just, like, it does matter what the composition, or could potentially matter what the composition of immigrants in your class is, because they're coming from different backgrounds. So, I think it's, it's useful to share that information, but then when you've got these outcomes below, it gets, it, it just sort of muddies the, the, I don't know, the way I'm, at least for me, it was, it's part of why I asked that question for, is like, wait, why am I thinking about immigrant outcomes, right? Right. And that made me think about, oh, they're siblings, but then how are you identifying siblings in the family merge? So, I think we can just get rid of the outcomes below there for the immigrants, because we don't really care. I see, yeah, so, I see. So, maybe instead of outcomes, I can say, like, like, we'd see that they have, you know, like, lower achievements, and maybe, like, because, like, I think the, the showing the two-year enrollment, four-year enrollment, and, like, college, is, like, it goes to show that we probably can expect some sort of negative spill-overs, because the achievements of the immigrants are lower relative to the native sample. But that's dodgy. Right. Right. Like. So, maybe just, like, show free lunch. Or, or, like, parent education. Like, like, yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, you don't have parent education in the data. Okay. But yeah, I think you're not thinking about these as outcomes. No, they're not outcomes. They're not as proxies for some kind of underlying immigrant skill characteristics. Right. Yeah. So, maybe it's better to just get rid of it. Okay. Thanks. I'm going to just raise this because somebody eventually wills, and you're stopped anyway. Like, how do you know it's being an immigrant and not being an ESL student or some other characteristics there? Right. Like, I think people will, in the education or education-oriented world, might be disturbed by your characterization that this is immigrants, per se, being negatively selected. Right. Okay. Like, you should think hard about how you want to say you're identifying it, because it could really be any one of those characteristics that looks different or some unobservable, right? Right. Like, although I'm not claiming that it's because they're immigrants that they have the lower characteristics, right? I'm just saying I think some people would be very, find that a very challenging thing to hear it expressed as. Okay. Yeah. That's a good point. Thank you. Okay. So, next I'll show some preliminary results. So, today I'm going to talk about a few things. So, first we're going to look at the patterns of native flight and also the correlation between baseline characteristics and peer exposure. So, that basically tests our assumptions. And we also, like, employ an instrumental variable strategy by relaxing the family fixed effects assumption. And I'll talk about how we do that. And also, we have some outcomes on college and also some heterogeneity, which is pretty interesting. So, this is a coefficient plot on the, basically we're regressing the baseline characteristics of the native students on the exposure to peers, immigrants' peers. And there are three models. So, the blue dot is no fixed effects. And the red one is the, is including the school by year and also grade by year fixed effects. And also, the green dot is the family fixed effects. So, basically what this graph is showing is that after we include the family fixed effects, most of these coefficients go to zero. So, that kind of basically suggests that the family fixed effects is contributing to reducing, basically, selection. However, there are a few coefficients that are not going to zero. So, especially the Hispanic variable, which we're kind of puzzled about, and also the white. So, our current hypothesis is that maybe it's because students are changing how they report ethnicity across time. Because theoretically, we would expect, like, most families are the same race. Like, the siblings should be the same race. So, our theory right now is students are changing. Maybe, like, they report Hispanic in the first grade, and then they report white in the second grade, so on and so forth. So, we're trying to look at that in the data. But, like, if you have, like, other thoughts, like, we'd love to know. And this is a coefficient plot showing the coefficient of regressing the native mobility. So, basically, there are two measures we're using. So, one is changing districts. So, basically, we classify someone as changing districts. If we observe them in one school district in one year, and then the next year, they go to some other district in the data set. And then, also, we have a variable for enrolled after. So, that's basically a dummy that's one if someone stays in the data in the next year. If someone drops out of the data set, we classify them as zero for this. So, we see that the three models, the blue one is no fixed effects. The red one is the traditional across-cohort within-school variation. The green one is adding the family fixed effects. So, we see that particularly with the red one. So, even after, like, basically, this is telling us that even after controlling for within-school across-cohort variation, basically, we still have significant movement in response to immigrant exposure. However, after we add the family fixed effects, it's pretty close to zero, even though it's not significant. Sorry, it is significantly different. But the magnitude is very small. So, that also kind of motivates the further relaxation of the identification assumption for the family fixed effects later. Yeah? Do you have the age difference between the siblings? Can you include that as a thing, too? Oh. I think we do have birth order, but let me check. Well, you know what grades they're in, so. Yeah. Sorry, the thought is... Well, if you have the birth certificate data, you should be able to directly calculate. Yeah. The reason I'm asking that is because the bigger the, you know, if you're closer together, maybe you're more likely to be in the same school, so it might just be nice to sort of see that as an X characteristic, too. Yeah, that's a point. Okay. So, basically, this is telling us that even though the family fixed effects significantly reduces selection concerns, it's still not zero. So, that motivates us to further relax the identification assumption for the family fixed effects. So, again, the identification of using the family fixed effects assumes that parents do not choose schools differently for their siblings in response to immigrant exposure. However, we could presumably, like, plausibly imagine that maybe families have different preferences for one kid, versus another. Maybe for, like, a higher achieving kid, they want less exposure to immigrants, but for another kid, they don't really care. So, they choose schools differently. And there are two cases we consider. So, the first one is the siblings who start at the same initial school, but go to different schools later. And then the second one is they just start in different schools. So, we employ the strategy of a transition matrix following the Figlio et al. paper. So, for case one, siblings who start in the same initial school, we restrict the sample to siblings with the same initial school. And then what we do is we estimate the population probability of a student in school K at grade G ending up in school J at grade G plus 1. Basically, what's the probability of a student in one given school at one given grade ending up in every single other school in the dataset in the next grade? So, we have a n by n matrix and n is the number of schools in the sample. So, for example, here the pi 1 1 is the probability of a student in grade G at school 1 ending up at the same school in the next grade. This is a student in school 1 ending up at school 2 in the next grade, and so on and so forth. Yeah? Does this, is it counted as a transition if you're going from elementary to middle school or middle school to high school? I think in the dataset we are counting that. As a transition. Yeah, but let me double check on that. I mean, I can't think ahead enough as to how it's going to affect the sibling thing, but I mean that seems like everybody is going to experience these transitions at those points, right? Yeah, so basically we're using this to construct like an instrument to proxy for exposure, which I'll talk about in the next slide. But let me definitely double check that. Mary? I was kind of thinking about the same thing because it seems to me that as you generally think, as you go from an elementary school to a middle school to a high school, you're going to a more and more diverse, bigger and more diverse community. Right? So, and to the extent that you're looking within siblings, if you're not looking within siblings at the time they're in the same grade, I think you could end up with some kind of weird thing going on where the older sibling is kind of, automatically in a more diverse school setting. So. Like I think this middle school to high school, the transition that Monica's talking about is probably pretty important. I also can't quite get my head around what direction that's going to bias things, but you really, I think it's really important, first of all, that they're both being measured, that the peers are being measured at the same time. But especially if you're going to use this as an instrument, that you probably need to stick to the same schools set, like get rid of the transition to middle school or the transition to high school. Only look at middle schoolers. Only look at, I think it's going to matter because of the. Yeah, no, that's an interesting point. I'll definitely have to think about that. So like basically the idea for this is we're kind of calculating like what's the probability of going from one school to any other school. And then like then we're calculating the expected exposure based on your starting school. So like how we do that is we use the, basically we use the transition matrix to multiply it to a vector of share of immigrants in each school in the sample. So basically on the left hand side is the predicted exposure in grade G plus one in year T plus one. And the Z's are the predicted exposure in school one, in grade G plus one, school two, grade G plus one, so on and so forth. And basically we're doing a matrix multiplication here. So basically we are multiplying the share of immigrants in school one by the transition probability from school one to school one, adding that to the share of immigrants in school two, multiplied by the transition probability from school one to school two, and so on and so forth. So we're kind of like calculating an expected, like expected exposure for each school. Sorry to interrupt. We're at 101. Oh. Maybe you can conclude then. Yeah. Thanks. Sorry. So basically using this we can construct Markov chains using this transition matrix and predict exposure from any grade G to any grade G prime. So this is a coefficient plot of the college outcomes estimation. So we're looking at enrollment on the left and also degree attainment on the right. So basically we see that there's some negative spillovers on native kids. And after controlling for sibling fixed effects, the effect is smaller in magnitude. But this also highs the important heterogeneities. So we see that low income immigrants have significantly negative effects for basically all native students. There's interestingly no significant peer effects for Asian students. High income immigrant students have positive peer effects. And again, Hispanic immigrants have lower negative spillovers. And that's probably because most of the Hispanic immigrants in our sample are lower income. And again, Asian immigrants have positive spillovers. There's no effects for white and black. Although they're very small in our sample. So that's basically all the stuff I'm going to present today. We would really appreciate feedback on the strategy and also the IV strategy we're trying to use. And how we can think about getting to the exogenous variation in the peer exposure. And because this is kind of pretty different results from a lot of what we see in the literature. Like how do we think about this? So yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's super interesting. I think it's just going to get pushed really hard on like is this actually about being an immigrant or is it about being Hispanic? So I think you're going to have to be really prepared for plenty of negative feedback about that. Yeah. It's not that I think that what you did is wrong. But it's just like you're sort of identifying. Right. I think that's why I think you want to like the closer the siblings are probably the more likely they are to be in the same school. You know, I thought Mary Ann's point was one point about the same age if you can or the same grade anyway. Right. So the problem is like if they're in the same grade then we don't have any. No, I mean different years, same grade. Oh. Like in that she's right that there will be probably this incredible thing. But I think you want to sort of convince yourself about the different transitions. And it seems like this would be much more relevant for like elementary school than it would be for high school. Like high schools are so diverse. And I also wondered how it interacts with like the amount, immense amount of sort of segregation in schools. Yeah. Well, that's a good point. Yeah. I mean, I, I, you know, I, these are all just comments about what populations are represented for. That's great because we are looking for feedback because like we are like kind of puzzled by the results. Like, like it makes sense, but like we want to make sure like it is actually, we're actually doing everything right. I mean, I, I, you guys all work with Scott. I would talk to Scott about it because that's the piece that I was wondering, like, is it something, you know, could it be some other characteristic of the school overall? I know you're mostly netting out this, you know, like all the models have school by grade two, right? Mm-hm. But is there a way you could, you know, just characterize how much, I, I don't know what's bothering me about it, but it's, I think there's something about not feeling like this is a special subsample of people who are particularly stuck in those schools. Right. Or, you know, like if you were to characterize it by some other characters in the school, would it be, you know, is all of this variation happening in, like if, I would like it, sorry, I would like it better if it was closer to being like a refugee shock. Oh, yeah. Than just general changes. Mm-hm. In terms of thinking about the variation being insogenous. Yeah, exactly. Like that's what we're trying to like work out because like right now we're not super confident that we're actually getting random variation. So. Okay. Have you done some heat maps too? Like the. Of the like variation that you see. Uh-huh. By, by district or something like that. Yeah. Beyond just the sort of like predict the variation somehow based on other characteristics of the place beforehand. Okay. Just to sort of see if you can. Like if you, if this was a just, you had a dummy that more than 30% were immigrants or something like that. You could run regressions where you're like what predicts having more than 30% immigrants based on stuff about the place before I see any of these kids. You know, so my gut would be like there's some high income immigrants who come into some of these places and then there's some really low income immigrants and the other kids are leaving those schools. Right. Yeah. That's the point. Um. I'm also like. But that's, I mean I, I didn't mean to come across. No, no. I just think you're going to get big pushback from. Yeah. You know, imagine you were doing this in California. Exactly. Like that's why like. That's why you're not doing it in California because the people of the state would freak out. Right. That's because like. I'm scared to like actually, like I was really hoping that the signs would flip. I mean, it includes down in fix effects, but they didn't. And like now I'm trying to like figure out how to make it so that it's not like we're trying to say. No, no, no. Like of course I get it. But I, you know, obviously that's still like the immediate place my brain went is that that's how some people would interpret this. Exactly. So I think you want to think real hard about, you know, if you had a set of siblings that you expected that you could find in public schools in Texas, how many of them do you see in your data? And like when you lose them do some rebounding to sort of guess something about the outcomes for the people that you lose. Okay. Yeah. You know, like, cause the other way you could have done this is you could have said something like the place where I was born has a certain number of immigrants and that's exogenous. Like that's not selected by parents deciding where to go to school. I'm not saying you should do this, but like that would not be a time varying thing that depended on whether you stayed in the schools or not. I mean, I don't know what you can do about it, but that's what was running through my head is that I don't, you know, and maybe the rates of transitioning to private school are really good. Yeah. Yeah. That's a really good point. I think. Yeah. I think like right now the difficulty is just like, I'm not super confident that without a school, I'm not really sure. I'm confident that without any fixed effects is, you know, giving us a very idiosyncratic theory. So, yeah, that's kind of like limiting our ability to kind of think about the results. Yeah. There are definitely some puzzling opportunities. I mean, I'm not, I know that this is probably exactly what the figure and paper did, but like that doesn't mean it's right now. Yeah. And also like, okay, they kind of like swept a lot of stuff under the rod. Oh yeah. Because like there's all these slides. Yeah. So maybe it's very, um, how many different questions people had. And my question about the people on the rod, if it's and, if it's around the whole thing. Yeah. And it's like, they kind of talked about the native flight problem, like they didn't even show it. Yeah. And I'm just wondering why. I think you know why. Yeah. So like, how did the television do that? Well, I think the other difference is that, um, you know, there's a lot of probable, I don't like maybe the immigrants that are showing up in Florida, like a subset of them have a lot more income. I think that's not the case. And can switch schools and also people in Florida have a lot. I mean, I know, I'm sure Texas has a lot of choice in some places, but I think of Florida as being kind of, maybe that's wrong. That's just my perception from seeing papers about it. But I feel like Florida has a lot of school choice. You know, I, you know, I think I could also imagine you could sort of restrict yourself to some subset of you have so many people in your data. Like you could do some part of it that's maybe just some place where there's a lot of, you know, heterogeneity and backgrounds or something, you know, versus like, you know, whatever enormous district in the very sparsely populated part of Texas that you're seeing. Yeah, that's, that would be really interesting. Yeah, I mean, I think like some of the differences in results from the figure paper is definitely like the characteristics of the immigrants because there's like, I think, like the broader patterns, like the Cuban immigrants are like higher achieving, you know, higher socioeconomic outcomes, especially the older people who fled communism. Right. Right. So the Mexican immigrants in Texas are much poorer. Yeah. So I think that's definitely one thing that's different. But yeah, I would just try to think hard about like, if you started with the people you could have matched in, in Texas from the birth certificate data, if you have all, they haven't done the merge, if you have all the data for all the pieces, what people could you have started with? And then what characteristics of the initial sibling pair from the birth data, if you could do it in the birth data, do you like predict disappearing from your link? That's, that's, that would be a diagnostic that I would try. That's a really good idea. We're definitely going to try to do that. So like how does the baseline characteristics predict disappearing from your data? Yeah, because that's why I asked the question about the zeros. You know, because like you have to infer, like I know lots of people in Texas stay in Texas and stuff, but you have to sort of infer what happens to people that leave your data. Exactly. And like, that's definitely one shortcoming of this because like the people who leave the data, they could just go to a private school in Texas or they could just go out of state. We don't know. So, no, I think that the clearinghouse data will also help you because anybody who goes to college somewhere else more or less should show up in your data. I also wondered, like you saw this increasing share at the very beginning of your sample. Is there any reason to think the data is worse at the beginning of the sample? Because I would have expected that thing to stay flat. Yeah, that's a good point. I don't know. It just struck me because like those kinds of things tend to be pretty fixed over time. In my experience, I'm not saying it's like means something's wrong. I'm just saying I noticed it. But sorry if I came across strong. No, no, no. I'm just like I was worried about you guys getting, presenting this and like, you see this and how I'm going to say it. Exactly. Like that's what I'm trying to avoid. Yeah, bigger. You should start putting please do not cite or quote when you're presenting. Oh. I would do that. Okay. And I'm happy to talk more sometime. That would be great. Like if you were like here in the summer maybe you can get a meeting for all of us. Yeah, yeah, just, you know, send me an email about it. I have to be your punny, so. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay. Just also to clarify, so the exposure, like if you have a hundred percent exposure in one year or let's say there's ten grades, I know that there might be some waiting here, but like that's going to end up the same exposure as someone who's had ten percent over all ten grades. Yeah. Like, I'm stuck on, like you motivate the paper with long run outcomes. And I'm not seeing how you distinguish, especially when it's like correlated. Yeah. How do you distinguish like a short run versus long run outcome other than just. You mean like the short run versus long run, the full run? Yeah. How do you distinguish the effects? Because you're saying like there's very little research on the long run effects of immigrant exposure, but like these things are correlated. Like achieved, like the short run effect on achievement. I would think, like it's, based on my understanding of the literature that like, I mean it's not going to be very, what am I trying to say? Like I'm just thinking that like you would want to isolate when you're talking about long run effects on college, the difference between being very exposed to immigrants in 12th grade high school versus being exposed to immigrants in elementary school. And it doesn't seem like your analysis incorporates anything that makes that distinction. Yeah, that's a point. So like we have like, we have like models where we kind of like estimate for like elementary school exposure, middle school exposure, high school exposure to kind of see like if there's a certain change in the... Okay. So like the effects I imagine are stronger for high school than for... Honestly, I don't remember. Okay. And I mean that might also help with the whole transition matrix idea as well because the other thing I'm thinking about is like if you are doing this transition matrix the way I'm understanding it and like I should go familiarize myself with the Figlio methods. But like someone in elementary school, everyone in sixth grade or fifth grade changes. And so there's a one sixth chance of transition to the next middle school, right? Yeah. So like I think there's definitely something funky about the primary middle school high school transitions. So... And my point here too though is that this is correlated potentially with exposure because like K through 12 schools are going to be in more rural areas which are going to have different exposure levels. Like... So... You might want to just... Like one... Maybe like going to like primary school? I mean there's... I don't know exactly what way you might want to structure this where you have a transition... Like I was trying to think of like a nested transition matrix. I don't know where it's like transition in grades that aren't expected... To leave school? Yeah. Yeah. Maybe like... So that would be like kind of one to five, one to fifth grade for example. Yeah. I think that would be a really good thing to check because right now to be honest, I don't know how like we're dealing with the like middle to high and like primary to middle school transitions. I'm guessing that it's just spread out across all the students. So like if you're in first grade because sixth grade... fifth graders are going to middle school you have a one-fifth chance and that's not necessarily a problem unless if everyone goes to the same type of school where those transitions happen at the same time because it kind of washes out in the prediction. But I don't know exactly Texas context but in California context like the grade transitions change a lot in different areas. So like you would go to like a different district for example? I mean that in Davis for instance you transition from middle high school to high school and from ninth to tenth grade. In I don't know some random place near Nevada you're going to be in the K-312 school the whole time. So those transitions and then somewhere else like the eighth to ninth is... My thought is just like all those places are going to have different like different probabilities and differential exposures to immigrants and so that I think could cause problems for like your identification being clean. Yeah I think you're right. And also like I've been having trouble thinking about the cumulative exposure measure because like... Yeah like I think the weighting thing is a little bit funky. And especially like we're doing this just because like for people who kind of like we observe in fifth grade and not sixth grade, then like they can still save the data. Whereas like ideally I think what I think a much cleaner measure would be like limiting the samples to everyone who we observe from first grade to twelfth grade and then just coupling the average exposure. But that would be like a very selected sample. Part of me is curious whether... I don't know if this was going to Marian's idea I was talking to Dennis at one point. But like if you just take like probability... you have no address information on anyone. No, I'll put you. Yeah. Okay so if you take like the probability given their place of birth of them just staying in that like the probability mix of schools... I think that's a cleaner way to go about this. That like say you're born in I don't know like San Antonio. Sure you don't know which school that person would go to. But like they have a... I'm trying to think how... how like... it seems like a cleaner I'd be... Like what the probability they attend each school? Like from first grade to fourth grade for example? Yeah like I don't... I guess what I'm trying to get to is like... How does this do that come up? If you think that people move before attending school from their place of birth in response to the limits? Yeah I guess I'm just thinking that the place of birth is so general that like it's hard to... I mean I don't know. And also I actually... You have like hospital, right? I don't think so. I think the Texas birth in next has very limited information. There's like name... It's just county? Name, birthday, I think there's county. And that's about it. There's no... Okay. Yeah. Let me double check. Yeah. I'm just thinking if there's any... if like... Obviously if it's county then it gets kind of... very generic and I don't know if that's helpful. But I'm... yeah I guess I'm just thinking that like that is a... like what you're after is just the exposure... Oh but would that annihilate... So with the family fix effect... They're both born in... No but they'd be differential exposure because they're at different ages, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So... They're in different cohorts. Yeah. So I think... I think that's like the direction I would go. You're after clean... Like exogenous variation of exposure. And it seems like something at baseline. You're choosing initial school. But then that kind of gets funky with transitions but if you just... Well I guess... I don't know. Is this... I mean it's like... No it's like predicting... Using like observed probability in the population to predict which school you end up to... Mm-hmm. Like in the following grades. And then calculating the expected average exposure. Mm-hmm. From those formulas. Mm-hmm. But isn't that what you're doing? Yeah. Exactly. It's just a difference of initial school versus... Versus place of birth. Yeah. But initial school is... It's more fine. Yeah. It's gonna be much finer. So I don't know if that's... Yeah. Yeah. I guess... I guess... Like a way to get cleaner... Um... Data... Or cleaner variation here is maybe by annihilating the like lower values of transitions. What do you mean? So like... Say... There's gonna be a low percentage that someone goes from one school to any school. Oh yeah. But you could like... Anni- Like... Get rid of... Set those kind of... To... Use the transition... Transition matrix to... Identify transitions that only are like regular. That is... From fifth to sixth grade. You go from this school or that... From this elementary school to either of these middle schools. So you use... I don't know exactly how, but... Use like the... Data to tell you what normal paths are. And then you just calculate average exposure based off those normal paths. Does that make sense? Like... Kind of like taking the middle of the distribution. Yeah. I mean... Mode... Yeah. I don't know if you're saying... Middle I'm not sure about. But like... The middle chunk. Like you're saying cut off the tails, right? Well... To... What is the running variable? Oh... I mean like... Um... Because I... When I'm saying... Not... I'm saying focus on the extreme in terms of probability of transition. Wait... Focus on the extreme? So like if... If I'm in... Like by extreme you mean like small or large. I mean... Well when you say look at the middle, you're looking at the middle probability. I mean like for the schools... For the schools... For the schools... For the schools who are... Who have like largest probability to be... Like for the student to end up in. We want those largest probabilities. Right. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So yeah. Um... Those... Those largest probabilities are telling you that like this is a normal path. Right? But it's like... That... You go from... Elementary school number one to middle school number two to high school number two to high school number three. Mm-hmm. Um... So then you're getting rid of all the variation of like some switching that is selection and just looking at the intended pipeline within the district and using that variation. And that's... Um... That's like... Instead of modeling the... Um... Like because some pushback on the transition matrix was like... Yeah. Wait a second. You have these intended transitions versus unintended transitions. And it seems like... What I'm trying to say is... Really what you want is the intended transition. You want to focus on that. Mm-hmm. So you use those high probabilities of transition to find the normal path through the district and then average exposure through that. I think that's cleaner variation that shouldn't get as much pushback. Is that fair? Yeah. No, I... I think I understand. Yeah? Okay. Do you want to paraphrase so that... I think... You're on the same page. You're just like looking at the prototypical transition path, right? Yeah. Basically. Wouldn't that be endogenous? Not... So like... The lower probability of the transition path, right? Yeah. Yeah. I think that's... I think that's cleaner variation that shouldn't get as much pushback. Is that fair? Yeah. No, I... I think I understand. Yeah? Okay. That'll be interesting. Do you want to paraphrase so that... I think... We're on the same page? You're just like looking at the prototypical transition path, right? Yeah. Basically. Which one... Wouldn't that be endogenous? Not... So like... The lower probability transitions... Are more likely selection, right? Why is that? So like... Everyone who goes to... I don't know... What's a middle school in Davis? I'm trying to think. Oh... Like... Yeah, I forget the names. I don't know. I don't know. But like... Let's say there's... I don't know... Scott Middle School... And it goes to Perry High School... But there's also... Marion... High School... Like... If... 90%... Go from Scott Middle School to Perry High School... But 10% go to... Like... It's that 10% that's going to Marion... High School... That they're more likely to be selected. That they're more likely to be selected. Oh... Because the normal path... The intended path... Is what the majority of students are going to take. I'm just saying... Like... Yes... There's some assumptions here... But it's... Plausible. It gets weird when it's like... These... This one... Like... Typically speaking... Elementary schools... Multiple funnel into... Less middle schools... Into less high schools. That's typically how things go. And so it should be... What gets weirder is when it's like... A one to three match. But that... I don't think like... Ever happens. Like... Because then... You don't know if... I mean... No... Even then... It's basically like... You just want to identify the... The top destination of a given school. And that's telling you that's the... Intended path within the district. And then you use that to say what the average exposure is. And you get rid of this like... Oh there's some selection that goes on... And we're gonna... Just downweight that... The expo... The... Exposure from that... Little bit of selection. You're just shutting down all those... So... Yeah... That's actually really interesting. Yeah. Interesting about that. I... I was... Trying to do this with my project... And I... Which one? Didn't do... So like... The math one? Yeah. The analytic sample is based on sixth grade math takers. But like... I... Didn't... It's like... I don't know... An issue I don't want to think about. I'm submitting it with this issue. That like... Ideally... The sixth graders should have... The treatment assignment. But I don't identify treatment until high school. And I just ignored the fact that like... I don't know their treatment assignment in middle school. But ideally I should like... Estimate it based off their probability of going to... Wait, what's the treatment assignment? That their high school introduces a course. So I'm saying that like... The correct way of using this analytic sample should really be... That I predict for all the sixth graders... Right, because going from middle school to high school is indulgence. Yeah. Right. Yes. I don't expect that it's actually creating an issue of... Because like... My... Event study is... Based on... Mostly focused on years... Where the course was introduced while they were in high school. Oh, okay. But... The whole like... Analytic sample then... It becomes more motivation of like... An arbitrary selected sample... Based on having a baseline achievement measure. And much less about like... Working with this analytic sample and kind of... Falling... I don't know. It's just that like... Long story short, it led me to this idea of thinking about like... How can I assign treatment to the middle schools? And I was thinking like... Well, if I do a prediction of this like... Transition matrix of middle schools to high schools... I can identify based on the... Top... Probability... For a given middle school what the intended... High school is. And then based on that... Um... Assign treatment to the middle school. That like... 60% of these middle schoolers go to... This... Or... Yeah... Go to this high school so they have like... 60% chance of being treatment. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess that's... But like how do you... Deal with like... Treatment is zero or what? How do you deal with like... I mean I guess it... Like... It... It... It... It was a... Kind of a minor detail so this is why I just like... Forgot about... Or just like... Pushed this aside and then come back to it. But it... Made me think a lot about these... Transition matrix... Matrix... Even though I didn't read the piglio paper so I didn't even know... Yeah... I... I'm... Thoroughly dissatisfied with their paper because like... They swept a lot of things on their record. Mm-hmm. Yeah. They didn't report any results on native mobility even though we talked about it. Mm-hmm. And... Yeah... Like... It's just weird. I mean... Again... I... Like... When I saw this with Derek at AEFP it seemed much more focused on the political outcomes. Uh-huh. Which I think is a less controversial story. Yeah, exactly. So... But... Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think when you start talking about long-term achievement outcomes then it becomes much more of a... Like... I guess I'm just thinking with achievement and wage and college going like there's so many more... I don't know... It seems like a lot more complex than political disposition. Yeah. Definitely. So all these like... Um... Concerns are much more heightened. Definitely. Yeah. I definitely agree with that. Okay. Yeah. Like... I am... Like... Personally, like I am definitely having trouble thinking about this like... Results and like I'm not totally confident in the strategy right now. I mean... Yeah. I'm just convinced... Although like maybe I'm not thinking through the empirical strategy enough but like I'm convinced that this is just correlated with like... Worse... I mean you should be identifying the fact of... The increased exposure. That's what you're trying to get after. Mm-hmm. But I think there's too many things that aren't cleanly identifying it. Right. That you're still picking up this like... The characteristics of the school and the area. Yeah. I think you're right. I think there's still probably some... Selection going on even after controlling for all these things. Mm-hmm. Because like... I think we can fully get rid of the... Yeah. And also like the family... Is not super clean. Because we have to rely on a lot of fuzzy mergers. Mm-hmm. Um... So I think... I mean there's a lot of people who have worked on mergers in the department. So I'm not sure. Including Kramer. I don't know if you've spoken with them about how you're doing matching. Yeah. Um... I think... What we did was like... Several iterations. Like I did a lot of different mergers. Like we did a lot of fuzzy mergers based on like... Like... Like a lot of fuzzy mergers based on like... Like like... Yeah. Like... Like... Yeah. Yeah. Um... Like... So I think... Yeah. That's... Yeah. So I think... And... Like... So I'm not sure. I mean... I think... a lot of fuzzy mergers based on like like different like we kind of like tokenize the names like and then like kind of match the distance in the strings and also we used like sound eggs stuff like that i didn't do the matching so i don't know exactly how it was done but i think there's a lot of like string distance and also like other sorts of things yeah i guess i'm just thinking that like kramer might be helpful just like different people in the room were giving good suggestions about like understanding how good your match was kramer can also provide some insights on that so yeah and and then yeah i know that there's others who have worked a lot with birth records here that like speaking with them a little bit more about this might help too yeah i think that's good um but yeah i mean i i hope you still feel good about your presentation oh i mean like i mostly just wanted to get feedback because like i am like you know like when i the the thing is like i am okay let's see