 Vanderbilt, went there directly from graduate school, right? Matt Navin, you graduated two years ago? Uh, four years ago? Yeah, four years ago. Oh my god. I mean, I think there's still this before and after pandemic. Yeah, right, yeah. And is it Washington and Lee, but is moving? Moving to government accountability. So you may have insights on multiple things. You met Derek Rue before. Brian Sandler, who is at, you're at F, oh sorry. And now at CFPB, I was at FTC straight out of here. Oh, I didn't know that. That's cool. Okay, so wait, Derek is doing a postdoc at University of Chicago, so good person to ask about postdoc things. You just heard where Ryan is. Nick, how long ago did you meet? Long enough. Who also did, he did a secret postdoc and he's now at Brno. And you just met Danielle Sandler, who is at the census. So you have a really broad spectrum. Plus there's some other alumni sitting out here who have their own experiences. And typically, I mean, I think you guys can be super short with whatever you want to say, because my guess is most of what you're going to get is questions and answers that just kind of move around. But maybe if you could each just talk for two or three minutes about something you wish you'd known when you were going on the market or something you just think is like, might be a title that they want here somewhere else, that would be really great. I also was told to remind people that we have a half an hour to get to Hootacreek when this is over, so we have about an hour. If you guys can, if anyone doesn't know how to get there, look out for each other and get yourselves there. If you have money, I want you to move as fast as possible. So I guess that's everything. I'm just going to grab my stuff and give you guys to it. And thank you guys very much for coming. No, no, we're going to stay. Yeah. I won't know because I won't be there. Yeah. Or you guys should just start asking questions. I will say, so an interesting disclosure, I made slides, so I'm an economics student, we have an economics associate, we have a meeting every year, and there's always a meeting for, a presentation for graduate students. So I slide, send them to Mary Ann and Jessica, so I don't really have any deep thoughts to share with you because I have two hours worth of slides that go through the job market and some of it is cobbled from things that you would see in this department, some of it is history specific, so for the cool kids who are economics historians, there's lots for you. But that's mostly, I'm going to not say much because I think if I send you the slides, I don't want to like ruin your review with my thoughts because they are only mine. So I'm going to let Matt start. Well, I guess I'll just say, yeah, so I'm an awards institution, so if you have any questions about that, that might be a good resource for that. One thing that I would definitely say just to think about when you're sort of choosing your first jobs, if you're thinking about academia, is that like path dependency can be really important, so like the teaching load at Washington and Lee, it alternates between 3.3 and 3.2, and like the different, oh yeah, that's a great point. These are all the kind of like terms that you pick up when you're on the job market, so that means, so think like sort of two semesters or whatever, a 3.3 is three classes one semester, three classes in the other semester, a 3.2 would be three classes in the first semester, two classes in the second or whatever. You can get sort of different combinations, I was just talking with Brock about sort of like a three zero versus a two one, that actually might be like an important trade off there because you get this big long period off, but like sort of the path dependency thing, all that I'll say about that is that if you're teaching a lot, then it becomes very hard to generate research that can get you to different tracks, so like if you're ever on the fence between something, much easier to move from like an R2 to a liberal arts college, than say like a liberal arts college up to an R2 and R1, so. Oh yeah, sorry, sorry. Like you go through the grinder and it's like printed in your brain, so R1 that would be like a UC Davis, this is a research one university, like primarily designed to produce research, and then like teaching is something that definitely happens, but like a lot of it's concentrated at say like the PhD level, R2 is gonna be like with Sac State, an R2. I'm not an alien, I get that strike. I am. Elysius, Elysius in four. Yeah, so like this is gonna be like a much more teaching focused institution, but you're still required to do like some research to get to that stuff like that, but much fewer resources for say like grants, like BAM results in R1, right? Yeah. Yeah, so I currently have a postdoc, I'm happy to answer your questions about that kind of setup and kind of what's unique about my postdoc, we've talked about other things, but going off of that point, I teach a class in the spring, so I can talk about as a postdoc, building up your research agenda, if that's something you're interested in, and you're also teaching kind of how I balance those things or don't balance those things, and kind of any thoughts about questions like that. So I spent my career in government, I can certainly tell you a lot about that, and about the different kinds of things one does in government, but probably one piece of advice I give to candidates I'll even tell those to people where we're trying to recruit them, which is the job market is a matching exercise, not an optimization exercise. There is no such thing as the best job, there is only the best job for you, given your preferences. And so what will work out best for you may depend not on some asset, that's the best job, and I'm gonna take a second, but it may be that like what you want to do with yourself will be more suited to a particular job, or a particular group of people too, like a lot of your happiness and enjoyment ends up being derived from the people you get to work with, either socializing or having people you can work with. And so that's very much a matching exercise, to make you very smart people that you don't enjoy hanging out with, and so that's not a good place for you. I like that, that's good. So I have had a odd career path, I did a post-doc, after I did a post-doc, I was at the college that we were married for a while, which is not quite a liberal arts college, but like bumps into a liberal arts college and then I am now at a policy school at Cornell, so I've done a little bit of everything. One of the things that Joe kind of casually mentioned in the presentation before was your first job is rarely your permanent job, and I think a lot of what's going on here is illustrative of that. So yeah, people have already said a lot of good stuff, so I'll just wait and hang around. Alright, so my path, so when I left Davis, I got a job with a consulting firm that had no, as a government contractor, no contracts, so I was essentially an unemployed economist, which is rare, most of us get jobs, so I went back up to the job market another year, and then I got a job with the Freddie Mac, which I stayed after three months, the InCensus had a hiring freeze that broke, and they offered me a job, and then I'll say something from the hiring side, as someone who hires a economist at the census, we are sort of engaging in that matching exercise, and it's hard to tell who really wants a census job, and will take it over a good other offer, and who is just applying to us for backup, so signaling that ahead of time, by reaching out to me, I am now in your network, so if you are interested in a job at the census, go ahead and reach out to me, when you're on the job market, so that I know that, oh yeah, you're really interested, so you've actually thought to come up, and contact me ahead of time, because that doesn't matter, we are trying to figure out who is worth our time, because there's a lot of good strengths on the job market, on the employer side too. So I'm just going to briefly add on to that, so I should say, sorry, I am in the econ department at Vanderbilt, so that just I realized that I'm a good one in the econ department, so I should say that, so you have economics specific questions, I can't answer them. No, I will say, we have this, we have the same thing, anywhere, I think it's in my slides, maybe it's wrong, anywhere outside of the top 20, anywhere that's in sort of an unusual place, nobody believes we're going to go, I remember being on the job market, and I was like, I have been telling you for four years, that I would love to live in Nashville, I have no more credible signal than that, I did this before there was a job, and then DC, I lived here, I would love to live there, so I think it's really useful to find whatever, this is my thing, find a version of excited and enthusiastic that is natural for you, and use that to signal to people, that you're going to be a good person, and that you're going to be a good person, to people that you were genuinely excited about the opportunity, because it is a two-way matching process, so thank you for reminding me, yeah, you have to. What does your cover letter like it? I'm on search committees in Montana State, we pay like crap, so we need some signal, and often it's like, oh, I really love skiing, we'll actually, so it's more likely to interview, for some reason, a family in Montana, but something that's not stocked, and we don't have any letter that's specific to the institution, some places will pay a lot of attention to that. That's a closely related thing, more so for, more so for government, though I think it applies to all sorts of else, in the interview, if you have questions, ask questions, because you asking questions in the first round interview is a good signal that you actually care, and would like to know details, I've heard from some of our recent hires, that they were told in the job market, do not ask questions in the first round interview, unless you're interviewing at Harvard, don't ask them any questions, but yeah, anywhere at the top 20, or government, liberal arts, any of those, showing that you actually are interested in bus stop questions, is a signal that you would like to go there, and that's something to watch out for. I will say, don't ask questions that you can easily find out on a website, so I think people get told, oh you should always ask questions, and I'll be sitting in interviews, and someone's like, so, how big is your department? I go, you can find that out, because we haven't done any research on us, so there's a difference between asking questions, and asking questions that I think have to do with match, which is what you were saying, and what really matters. The other cheap way to signal match, because I screwed this up, in my first interview, is they might say, oh why would you want to come, and it's to have a good answer, that is genuine, and not a lie, so whatever version of that that is, the story is, I was interviewing with this place in Singapore, Crazy Rich Asians had just come out, and they're like, you're American, would you really move out of the country? I was like, well I loved Crazy Rich Asians, Singapore seems really great. Terrible answer. That shows no understanding of an area at all. So I need a genuine response. So then every single, because it happens a lot, so what is it about this that you're really interested in? And it could be, so for some places, you'd be like, I deeply want to live in this location, some places would be like, the opportunity to work with students like yours, something that feels true, that's not a lie. I don't know. You want to find ways to signal your interests, that are genuine. Should we? Questions? Okay. Could someone just lay out the timeline, because I've never, no one has ever told me, November you should be doing this. You should have a job by now, Stephen. Well I'm just going to say, there's some caveats here, in all this, and that's that you all are going to have to play a slightly different game than we did, because the ASSAs have collapsed upon themselves, and I'm not sure if the job market is going to function exactly the same way time lag was, as it has for the past several decades. So that's not saying, don't listen to anything, that's just saying, I think you might have to re-optimize, because it used to be that everybody did everything at once, and that hasn't been the case in the last two or three years. So that being said. And actually, I was just on the job market, so it's a little bit different when you've already gotten a job, or whatever, and you can sort of be a little bit more selective, and stuff like that, but a big deadline is November 15th, I want to say, and then probably November 30th is the second big one. So you want to start working backwards from that, I think I, the very first time around, maybe apply to like 220, 25 or something, like institutions, and each one of those is kind of like, take time, so like, there should be hopefully, if UC Davis is someone who's out, a very collaborative sort of passing down of materials from like one generation to the next. Some of you might have our, I was just thinking about this, you guys might have our letters. And typically, kind of what you'll want to do, is like, there are three types of institutions, so like, you know, government, liberal arts, government, maybe like a sort of like private sector, or something like that, and just know that each application may take 15, 20 minutes, so just kind of like, you multiply that out, because you don't want to be in a situation where you're crunching for time, and you're like, oh I got a triage, like which ones should I apply to, because some of them will have softer deadlines, so that like, you know, apply three days after, and you're still getting an interview, some of them you apply one second after the deadline, and it's just like a system, so you can't get it up there, so maybe you can send an email with your application, but maybe they just reject it, so like, you'll probably want to start thinking about applying in like early October, I would say. So, yeah, let's work backwards. So, I think the deadline, okay, first, do the junior faculty still talk to the graduates, do the exiting PhD people still talk to the graduate students this break? So the exiting, I don't know if there is, no, there is no such a thing, so there used to be this meeting that the committee does, and it used to be at the end of the spring, last, in our job market here, the meeting was at the beginning of September, so basically like quite late, so hey, the deadline is that you have to have your job market paper ready by basically now. It was like very bad. Okay, so I think, but the set of slides is pretty much the same, so I'm like, we have it, so we're very happy to share it like with everyone, and I'm not going to send it to EconGrad, just not to over-stress people who are like very early, but if you're like fourth, fifth, sixth, or like thinking of like going next year, I'll send you like, I guess today or tomorrow, that's the first thing, and the second is that there is like a collection of cover letter from like previous students, including like Sarah, and I don't remember well, like Lester, I remember, so there's also like a nice talk of sort of like information, of people that go. So the spring before you go on the job market, and I know your advisors should agree that you're going on the job market, and so over the summer, you're sort of stopping working on other things, you're working on your job market paper. By September, you've written a job market paper, you're going to like stare at your intro longer than you ever thought you would look at the intro, you're going to do your job market talk at some point, and then in October, you're kind of like writing your material. So as I mentioned, there's like a write a cover letter, so as Matt said, there's a couple versions of that, there's a research statement, there's a teaching statement, there's often a diversity statement, there are a lot of examples online on how to do all those things, I guess you guys have ours. So for example, like Matt and I sat, so most of our time we spent on our job market papers, and then in like two afternoons basically, we wrote our other statements. We had sat in the poverty center and wrote them, and then like proofread them, and like read each other's. So I think it's really helpful to find your support network at some point, getting up to the job market, to have people that like, like it was very helpful to have Matt go, you're not explaining any of these things correctly, nobody knows what you're talking about, they weren't alive in 1929, useful for me to know for the job market. So having that group of people kind of in mind, and then in October, you're kind of working on these things, and then you like, the kind of soft deadline, kind of hard deadline is if you want your job market paper up on your website, I think you have to have, well in advance so Google can cash it or, thank you, that's the word. Thank you, that's the word. So like people will start looking. So for example, like when we're hiring, we might like go look around at people, at PhD students' websites who are job market candidates to see if there are people who think are particularly good fit. And then November is sort of application period, and then in the past there used to be this pause in December and that's no longer true, and so that's the part I think that Nick's talking about that sort of changes. And so the one thing I want to highlight because I noticed Matt and I were driven slowly and saying like very different aspects of the job market. I don't remember which ones were they. You hated uploading applications and I found it so soothing. You just like listened to some music and like upload, there was like nothing to do and I hated revising my paper and I think you were fine with that. Yeah, one thing I will say about revising your paper, just again, back to the timeline question, you probably, and correct me if you guys would say earlier or later, but I'd say probably by August or September you want that thing pretty much as quick as it's going to be, but there's this huge straight up that I regret. It's like, oh, my table, the footnotes need to be perfect. It's like no one is reading the footnotes of your tables the first time around. We were hiring, two years ago I think it was, and we probably had 600 applications. You read the intro, you read the cover letter, and you maybe read the letters of recommendation from the advisors. And so like, you need a fully baked paper, but if it's like, actually I know there's one minor error here, you can just fix it by the time you do the interview or the fly out, and it's like that's how to make it. So don't waste too much time on it. And yeah, so they're actually bringing up, I should note, government jobs I think will frequently spend a little more time on your paper. We have a little bit of a lunch, so the one thing about government, you have federal government jobs, we cannot hire non-sits. It's just, that's our law, we're bound by it. It also means we get fewer applications. And that means that we, like our one comparative image, we know we have a hard time recruiting people who are dead set on academia, as we can spend a little bit of time making sure like, like actually reading things. It's also true that I don't know that I ever like read anybody's footnotes in my first edit on this paper. But like, somebody's got a bunch of typos in their introduction, like it does signal like, okay, you clearly are not very careful and like writing carefully is something that you care about. That's a good point. On this note, so like there's a job market paper, a cover letter, a bunch of statements, a recommendation letter, you know, in your experience, what are the things that's kind of most important, like most valued in terms of like, when, you know, like when we're getting into PhD for when people tell you GRE, like you just need to get certain score, like push your COD edge, and it's your math, it's your, you know, that kind of thing. In the job market, I'm sure it's more complex decision making, but in your experience, like what are some of the things that you wish people should prioritize in terms of the paper, introduction, cover letters? Okay, I'll say that somebody complimented my cover letter once and I was like, you've read that? So I would say that I, but it is nice when you're on the hiring side to see that what someone is legitimately just acknowledged the job they're applying for. Right? Like it's like, so this is the kind of thing where it's like the cheap signals actually end up mattering a lot because we're just like looking for validation that you would like to be hired by us on some level. And that might seem silly to you guys, but it's like that's the thing where like having a cover letter that like in some way acknowledges that you're applying to a liberal arts college, you're applying that we were hiring like a very weird job, like a very specific job title. It's like the fact that you noticed that this is a weird job and you kind of talked about it in some way, that ends up being helpful. I don't know, I've spent a little time on people's research statements if I'm trying to get a sense again of like if they're actually a fit for the position in any way, but mostly I would say at least for me I look at people's letters of recommendation because I, a lot of the times people's advisors like spell out the person's work clearer because they get to be more, you get to be more casual about it, right? And then as opposed to a job market paper like they write these like let me situate you in the literature and tell you about this person like this person's great. Right? So those are helpful but I think it's like the job market paper matters a lot. The one thing I'll say actually this is what I'm going to say about advisors is that you need like usually three, sometimes four letters. Typically we need, so there's, when you go up to advanced you can't and see there's five people in the room one of them is outside so you have these four other people. You want to make sure all of those people are on the same page and understand what's going on with your research because all of them are going to write letters and that's very helpful but I think the job market paper the intro of the job market paper is the thing before you apply it because it's like that's your proof of concept it doesn't have to be the best idea you're ever going to have but it's the proof of concept that you could get if you're at a research institution that you could get to enter there. Right? And so that's you saying I'm an independent researcher who has ideas and I'm good at them. Right? And so you want to kind of lay that out for people in a way that it's like oh, this is fun so it has to be polished right? Because they also want to think it's publishable. I'd also just kind of add that there's probably a tiny bit of like institution specific sort of like a banner sort of like a banner bill versus a government versus a liberal arts college like I'd say probably like job market paper and your letters of rec are 1A and 1B you only have control over one of those things though so like that makes that easier in all honesty but like I can tell you hopefully this is totally legal so don't anyone like sue my institution or whatever but like the first time around when we were hiring if you did not include liberal arts college in your cover letter you were automatically disqualified and so like that was a screening mechanism where the cover letter becomes very important but just for it's kind of what Sarah is saying about the signal it's not that mentioning that's a strong signal it's that not mentioning it is sending a strong sort of anti signal or whatever so those are just things that same thing I'm sure with government it's like if you talk about I can't wait to do a ton of research or whatever it's kind of like you don't want to be in the government like that's it's not research it is I want to love teaching yeah shhh I mean yeah like I don't usually read too much into it but yeah I definitely have colleagues who would be on the hiring day like he sent his cover letter he loves teaching he didn't even bother to tell Taylor in fact this is a government agency like that at the same time like in terms of how much time you spend on it like typically the cover letters like have a big paragraph to study your research what kind of research you do honestly and I skim over those and everything like I'm skimming for like did you tell me something about why you're interested in this job or if you're interested in this job so it's like don't it's a thing you could screw it's like it's a thing you could screw up but like don't don't kill yourself over it may not be absolutely perfect so the one exception I'll say though to like needing to describe your field if you were in a weird intersection if you sit somewhere in an intersection of fields it's very helpful I think to explain to people so again some of this is like I'm an economic historian I have to be like look you should care about dead people but you want to say like I was applying to macro jobs so I need to be like hey I'm a macro economist who works on these things if you should consider like so making sure that you're pitching yourself if you sit in the intersection of fields having a version of your cover letter that's like I'm a good fit right like to say like I fit the thing you're looking for isn't that it's a signal and so if you're somebody who sits I mean if your two fields are going to be public and labor okay you're probably fine but if you are like like a structural IO person and also an environmental economist or something where you'd like the same people might not be on the search committee that's kind of that's kind of where you want to make sure that you're you're being broader I have no other questions for David so first off postdocs yes so how do you navigate sort of framing of postdocs I feel like there's obviously you know the initial market of getting a postdoc and then there's the secondary market that's out of the postdoc and at least from from this standpoint you're off the fold you get to the institution that you took a postdoc not because you failed the market because you weren't a postdoc right is that is that a tough is that tough is that tough to navigate I mean I guess you have a problem the second part yeah but I guess the whole two is what did you see as the benefit of the postdoc was it do you feel like you really benefited from getting a wider network going to Harris or I'm not sure where you said you'd be if you were a postdoc but does that benefit how way sort of this potential signaling this discussion of what might have to happen in this secondary place yeah I don't I can't speak to the the getting a job after the postdoc maybe you can talk more about that but I think I think there are some clear advantages of getting a postdoc after grad school and then there might be some costs that hopefully won't be too but but I think some of the benefits are like if you're in grad school and yeah I think your research can kind of grow because you are injected into an institution with new peers and colleagues and often the postdoc I think when I talked to other people who had a postdoc they're kind of inserted into a research kind of machine that's kind of operating at full full potential so I think there's opportunities to kind of contribute to those projects add your own kind of expertise to those projects become a part of an author on certain papers and also you get access to I mean hopefully with a postdoc what typically happens in a postdoc you like doing this latter remove or kind of improve upwards in terms of institution report so I think the resources you have access to are probably different and greater at the new institution and I mean my experience has been people are often very excited to hire a postdoc as like part of the research team and often times yeah it's kind of working with the group and there's the responsibilities are can be very loose and so I guess that will depend on the certain type of postdoc but I think there's like really great opportunities to kind of explore your own research and if it's time for that as well and then also to contribute to the research that's going on as part of that group as well yeah I will say there are postdoc makes it sound ubiquitously identical but there's a huge variance in what postdocs actually are there's variance in timing there's variance in responsibilities there's variance in time there's variance in time there's variance in responsibilities so like there are when your postdocs out there those are in my mind very difficult to navigate because what I will say is sort of what I think you're describing which is incredibly accurate is a postdoc is an opportunity for a proof of concept which is two years later you're going back on market and you have the time to show what you've become in those two years and if you go back out with the exact same job market paper that is going to be taken as a negative signal even if there's perfectly good reason for it because as evidenced by the 600 applications like we need signals and we take them where we can and so if you do a postdoc and you go back out with the same thing that you did two years ago my question is what's the value added that you're going to bring to my institution if they give you two years of time to work on yourself as a researcher and you haven't seemed to have changed who you are as a researcher as a function of that so that's one way that things can go badly and it's for that reason that I think one-year postdocs are particularly challenging because that basically means you're back on the market two months after you've started your job that also goes along with how much of your time is your own if you're a researcher who's being brought in to work on somebody else's projects and that's what 95% of your time is going to go that's also harder to go back on the market because it just means that you're basically working a full-time job but also still having to start a second job or get that paper and get that done in terms of where you have an opportunity to shine from it though is like you become a more known quantity in the field not by just producing more research but by having more conferences and interacting with people and you know this is a very challenging hiring process because the variance coming out of graduate schools is high and so we when we're hiring people we want to hire somebody who we think the more signal we have out of the noise the better and those two years give you time or two or three years give you time to sort of signal who you are make yourself a more known quantity and that can be a real benefit I think 10 years ago postdocs were more stigmatized like what you're mentioning nowadays it's not at all unusual I think for people to do postdocs and and I will say that one other thing that I think is really good that would be really useful coming out of postdoc is try to get a situation you can have a letter of recommendation that comes from somebody who is at your postdoc institution because that's again kind of a sign of hiring employers they're like oh this person contributed to the place where they were and it's not just them going back to the market two years later after being sort of a height from graduate school but like this is a new person who has grown and contributed to where they are and that's I think can be a real positive signal Can I ask a follow up to that like this kind of second job market people you were talking about like are the expectations similar to the like I would assume like it's more likely to be co-authored and like that yeah okay can you have I totally think it becomes much more flexible in terms of what you can call a job market paper conditional on your first job market paper being somewhere productive now so like those that time is the time to finish up your job market paper and try and get it published even if our timelines are crazy but even if it's not published at least it's out there it's made the conference circuit it's been submitted places stuff like that your second paper because that known quantity of your first paper is there and because I think it's less seen as like well everything's on the job market because there's a wider range of what employers can see about you by that so co-authored job market paper first of all I don't think co-authored job market papers are frowned on nearly as much as they used to be you have to be careful about signaling you have to make sure your advisors are helpful in that signaling in their letters as to what you did and contributions and all that so that's what I mean in my opinion after you've been out for a while what your whether or not you have a co-author or anything like that is much less consequential and you are now kind of seen as a larger package than your job market paper because you had some time to kind of show what you are so speaking on the job market paper what's the expectation for the content other papers on your website or like should I have a PDF or just an abstract or what kind of expectation do you have to get to that I was told before going to market it would have been really great if I had another paper but I didn't so you know no I think I think people like it so in an ideal world something that you worked on in your second or third year with another graduate student would have become a paper that you could have published if that doesn't happen it certainly I don't think it's at all the end of the world but I think what you want to have are other papers that are going to be papered so I think I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think at least from our perspective I think one of the reasons we care about what the other papers are is that we want to see there's a again there's a trajectory through which you're going to get tenure right hiring is costly and so what people want to see is that one you know okay cool you didn't strike gold once you are a person that's curious and works really hard or whatever but I think having that is it useful for that to be like, oh, I'm interested in these things. It also like shallowly matters because your dissertation is three chapters and you do need to graduate before you start your job. But the thing that someone told me and I think it's totally true, you only wanna put stuff in your paper that like into your research statement and on your CV that you're willing to talk about. So the thing you don't wanna do is be like, I have run one regression and I'm pretty sure I know how this paper's gonna turn out. Here's an abstract because what happens, maybe you're on a fly out and then you have these one-on-one meetings with lots of people wherever you're going and maybe they're in a different field than you and they're trying to think of something to talk to you about and they're like, oh, tell me about this other paper and you better be able to talk about it. You need to be able to signal those things. But that's again, you want those, so that's I think one place where it's important is just like you credibly have other research and they kinda wanna, you think people kinda wanna see that the things that you're interested in in some ways hanging together so that they'll know these are the kind of researcher that you are in some way and there is a flow of research that will be issued for you. So some of that goes into your research statement, I'm interested in these questions because one question that people ask in interviews and they'll ask you on fly outs is, what are you gonna work on next? One thing I found a little unsettling but I've had to get used to is that people are like, great, you did a thing, move on. And you just kinda have to be cool with that. I have a lot of versions of this. I think the thing that's useful to know is people wanna know what you're gonna do next. They're excited to know what you're gonna do next and you need to be able to sort of credibly say, they're like, yeah, yeah, the dissertation, the dissertation, those are three papers. What are you gonna do for the next five years? And the real answer might be, I don't know, I'm trying to publish my stupid job market paper but that's not what they wanna hear. They would be like, oh, I'm gonna be working on other things and so you wanna be able to sort of lay out sort of this pathway. So I don't think that we would not turn someone, we might go, oh, someone doesn't have another paper. Ooh, ooh, they do, that's really cool. So I think that's good. I will say, from my perspective, having published a paper ahead of time, maybe co-authored, would've been a lovely way to be introduced to the publishing process and I think would've made some of those things faster as well. So I think there are knock-on benefits to that. So I think it's good to have other research but I don't know, do you guys, I don't feel like it's disqualification not to have something published or something before you go on the job market. I know we've definitely seen some senior colleagues be disappointed in people where they only have the job market paper on their CV just because most people are able to at least have the job market paper, they've got a second paper and then maybe they've got something that's just a name. And so because that's a pretty common thing, if all you've got is your paper, you're like, okay, well, you've been in grad school the same amount of time as with other people, they've gotten more done, like maybe you aren't that productive. The related, oh, that's a related point, that's not easy, I'm just saying that now. I'll just go back to that. One thing is if you are gonna post stuff on your website, do not do it on Dropbox or Google Drive because there are some institutions that cannot get access to those links. Including many government agencies. Yes. Yeah. My current employer does, my previous employer did not. I think your employer still does not. I mean, it depends on how much I line to the IT department. They sometimes unlock it if I line up or not line up. The thought I had related to, it was related to government jobs and the what are you doing next. Me, like, you should give honest answers in interviews, but if you're, if the thing that you would normally, all else we will do next is something completely unrelated to what they do at a agency you're interviewing for. Or if you're interviewing for something that's like kind of connected to your, it's probably a client interacting with your client. The field for the position is sort of tangential to what you do, saying I'm gonna do absolutely these three things that are completely unrelated to what you do next. Because again, it's about signaling like, I'm interested in you in this position here in front of me. And so if you're flexible, I'm like, well, I was thinking of doing this, but I'm also very flexible. You can say that, that's totally fine and no real judging for that. But it's like, and if you are genuinely, you wanna do health for the next 10 years and you're like, you probably shouldn't apply to a place like the PFPB because you won't get a lot of chance to do health research. But you can signal like, so we hired a development department recently at the census, we don't do development at the census here. And so she had, but in her interview she said, no, I mean, I'm interested in all these other things that you can do with census data. And so she convinced us that we hired her and she's excellent. So it's, yeah. But if she hadn't said that, if she had said, oh yeah, I'm really interested in continuing this research on women in Ethiopia, I'd be like, I mean, you can't do that here. Know your audience. And that's a lot out of malice. Like the decision not to hire people in that position is not because like, oh my gosh, it's just, this is a two-way matching process. And sometimes it's like, this person is not gonna succeed here. We don't wanna bring this person in here and have them be here for three or four years and be absolutely miserable in these second situations. So sometimes jobs turn you down, not because you're not up to snuff or anything like that, but just because they think like, yeah, this is a good two-way match and that's just the way it is. So if you're wondering, this is why people say to apply to 200 jobs, is that there's so much noise that it's hard, you don't wanna sort of like, lock yourself into a smaller set of potential matches in that way. Yeah. Oh, that just what you said there, it made me think of like, if we think about constrained versus unconstrained maximums, like the unconstrained maximum is always gonna be weekly better, right? So like, don't impose if you're like, I don't wanna live in this state or whatever, or like, I really wanna live in California because Davis is great. It's like, don't impose that constraint beforehand. Like if you already have a job and you're applying from that position, then you can do a selected search. But like, your goal is to get a job because as we saw, your talk earlier, it's like a lot of people move after their first job. So you just gotta, you kinda gotta get the bag to first hand and then. Get the bag. You gotta, and then you can move on after. So this actually reminds me of something I think is, I think it's really useful to remember is that your advisors do want you to get a job that you want. So tell them before you go on the job market what your constraints and preferences are. That may be really uncomfortable for you, but it has to happen. Like you need to tell them, our friend Siobhan was like, I'm not going to an R1. It's just not gonna happen. I don't wanna do it. And Marion paid to it to be like, okay, you wanna go to a liberal arts college. We are gonna work. It was just like, she knew what she wanted and it wasn't to be doing research all the time, right? Flip side of that, right? I was like, I don't know what I want. And said I'm interested in, I actually, I said I was never gonna go to industry because I guess they make a lot more money, so. I wanna be poor and noble. I was like, I wanna look at old books all day and they'll never let me do that. I could have bought old books. But. But it was like, okay, look, I don't know if I wanna be in a liberal arts college. I don't know if like any of these things. I'm gonna wait until I have off, if I have offers in hand, then I will make this issue. Cause it lets you feel stuff out. Cause actually, so Joe wrote this good job that we schooled in. I remember asking like with great anguish of what do business professors do? Like, what does it mean? Who are they? And I didn't really find much out about that until I was on the job market and actually it talking to people who were at this school. Cause I think a lot of times people's answer to that would be like, well talk to people who are in your network. And I was like, I know zero people who are at a business school. Like I don't know how to even collect that kind of information. But then you end up finding it through the matching process of being on the job market and talking to finance departments in my case and going, okay, this isn't it. Like we are not the same. This is not good for either of us, right? And so I think letting yourself be open to those things but knowing like what are the lines that you're knocking across? Like there can be things like it. Some of you have to trade off sometimes between geography and the type of job you're in and it's like worthwhile to figure out what those trade offs are for you. So like doing some introspection is good. And the reason you wanna tell your advisors that is that you may, I don't know if your advisor said this conversation to you. We did have sort of a, here's your expected placement and here are the options we expect you to be able to have. Conversation which was as terrifying as you might imagine. I think I literally, I think I walked from that two-third of you. I was like, I'm done. Like I just wanna leave. Anyway, because it was just such a weird conversation. So you wanna be clear in those ways so that you guys can make a mutually optimal decision for you because this is actually like your life. It's not theirs. So I think that's worth thinking about. Two questions. One, if you recall that conversation, how accurate was it? Okay. Okay, yeah, it was somewhat accurate. I mean, I will say, so this is something weird that I don't think I knew from where I'm on the job market which was how much weird back channeling there is and networking between people. So for example, I think, so I'm not like a keen theorist or whatever, but I think at some point, some pair of school I was hearing with talked to Shipper about me, like I didn't even take a class with him, but they have to kind of, so it's like, do you know her? You know, like these kinds of things happen where they're trying to figure out information wherever they can. So like be nice to all the faculty. They will know a little bit about you, the faculty here, having meetings to sort of share information about the graduate students who are on the job market, or they did. And so it's like worthwhile to remember that people have connections. This also matters for observed connections that are not gonna be on people's CDs where if someone's asking you like, why is your approach better than someone else's, like my mental rule is always pretend my mom is in the room, right? So I'll be polite. And it's just like, you don't wanna say something that like, you don't know who that, like you don't know who Matt knows. Like people might not know who Matt is. Everybody knows everybody, it's insane. Yeah, everybody knows each other, so you don't want, like if someone was like to Matt, be like, I don't know, I think Quincy 2023 is hot garbage. He'd be like, he might agree, but he would also remember like I actually know her. So it's something, but I don't know. I didn't find that, so he was somewhat accurate. I don't think Scott did it. Did he do it here? Oh, I guess, so maybe this is advisor specific, okay. Ours was like, oh, Dory, because Araya and I were trying to get a joint placement and then our advisors helped with that too. Like when one of us had an offer, or like our fly out to one place and they'd help us reach out to get to places we were. The other one of us got interviews like, hey, what's your search looking like? So yeah, that's another, sorry, unrelated to the job. Job market paper or anything, our advisor, our senior advisor, can only win if there's some other constraints. We touched on business school, but like what are the, I know trainings are a lot better generally, but like is that the research-led teaching mode? The line is you have to teach business school students. That's where they create more. But they also generally teach less. It depends on the type of business school. So if it's a case-based business school, you do a lot of like working with students since it's much more intensive. And it's not a case-based business school. This is what, I feel like I'm wrong. They typically will hand you a much more scripted set of things, like oh, you'll be teaching intermediate basically, here are the slides we used, do you need these things to standardize? The students require a lot. They're very, they're paying a lot of money and they have this expectation then that you're gonna be much more available to them than maybe at Davis, you would be to undergrads. So that can make a difference. The research expectations, I don't think are that different. So a lot is, I'm gonna jump in here, a lot has changed about this. The business schools, and there's variation with the business schools at the time. So some econ departments, for example, are housed within business schools. And in those departments, what you'll see is people who are econ PhDs, who are doing econ PhD-type research, publishing in econ-type journals, but teaching business students. And then there's also business schools that are business schools who are hiring people from other business schools, and the classes that you're teaching are on things like finance and management and stuff like that. And the publication expectations of those two different places can be very different. So for example, I'll talk about what I know, because I'm on the faculty senate at Cornell and there's been a big thing practiced in the business school there, they're moving to a tenure clock within the business school, which has become normal for a lot of business schools. And there's a very specific expectation in those good business schools of exactly which journals you're sending your things to, and they don't include things like AEJ. It's like, okay, I don't know that. It's not a review of financial studies, so that's a problem. Well, it's a top three, it's a top three. Right, yeah. Oh, finance people have the top three instead of the top five, and they will say they're the same. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so it's really important, this is one of those, you have any questions for us? This is one of those opportunities in the interview not to say, where do I have to publish? Because I don't know if you want to go there, but it is good to say, okay, well, tell me about what kind of classes you need taught as far as the journals where you like to see people aiming. What kind of stuff do you like to see people sending to? Do you prefer them to send to econ journals or finance journals? Stuff like that, because it is very very bureaucratic across departments. How about policy school? Policy schools, this is a good chance to bring up something I almost forgot, which is that policy schools also have a slightly different market. There's a policy school market that moves earlier than the econ market. Now, again, there are policy schools and there are policy schools. Some policy schools are like a bunch of people and there's one economist and one sociologist and one government person and like three people from demography and it's really an amalgamation. And then some policy schools are econ and applied so shabby. So the department I'm in is much more applied. So there's economists and sociologists and human demographers and government. And so within that context, we hire on the regular econ and sociology markets. But the other places that are specifically policy-ish will have a slightly earlier market. So if you're interested in the policy school market specifically, it's worth looking into exactly when that timing happens. So Nick, would that be like APAM is typically in October and the January? Yes. APAM is when the game starts, for sure. So a couple months earlier and that changes your job market timeline. Because if you want to be sending out applications after APAM, that's when a lot of the applications start coming due. And some places even October 1st, the policy schools will have their life for that. So that's worth looking at. And that'll also affect what they want you to teach. If it's the kind of place that's smaller and much more strictly policy-oriented, then they'll have a very specific thing that they need you to be teaching and they'll want you to do that. If it's a larger school like Harvard Kennedy or Harris or something like that, then it's much more likely to be kind of like, okay, so you're an economist. Could you teach a policy-related econ course? How would you describe it? What would you teach for us kind of thing? And they can be a lot more flexible about it. So regards to the policy school, so does having policy reports will help when you want to get a job in a policy school or it's same as the economy partners that they just want to see the causal pay cutters do? It varies a lot by school. So at places like Harris, they're gonna want econ stuff. At places like, I had a good friend who's at University of North Carolina's policy school, maybe much more interested in the kind of thing that's like policy work. Any place that has strong ties to another department, so if it's sort of, you know, you're in the policy school but you spend a lot of time in the econ department, which is how Cornell's works, or that, then they're gonna usually want you to be a little bit closer to getting able to get tenure in what they would call your home department, which is a place where you would be recognized with your work. So one other thing I was gonna say about business schools is like, and this is something I never would have thought about as a grad student, is I'm like technically, it's kind of like a school of commerce, but we're accredited by a business school, accreditor, and this is like actually a constraint that is much more binding than you would realize. Like we just had sort of a faculty vote amongst the commerce faculty or whatever, that our accreditor is telling us, we need to move to have two publications every five years in order to remain accredited as an institution. So at like a more research heavy place, that's probably, that may be even like less than you're gonna be expected to produce before tenure in terms of your case. So at a liberal arts college where you're teaching three, three loads or whatever, publishing two papers every five years for the rest of your career is gonna be really, really difficult unless you kind of make the trade off of I'm gonna publish lower quality work, shorter papers, and like easier to publish journals, and that just, maybe that doesn't matter to you, and then like, so that's not a binding constraint, but if you're like I want to publish in top tier journals or I want to move to a different institution and use top, lower tier publications are necessarily, quantity is not gonna matter as much necessarily as quality when you're going on that job market, so that could bind you in a little bit as well. So that's just like a random thing that, I mean I would have thought of two years ago when I was employed there until I got put on this committee. One other non-business schools here, they also hire people who are not finance or business people. So my co-author on the paper I presented has just been, he's been at the business school at Yale and he teaches a class on affirmative action. So like, and an applied metrics class. So there are like a lot of different kinds of classes that are then gonna be offered to students. So like just because you're like, I'm a public labor person or whatever, like they still could be hiring in your field and that's something to at least consider. Wait, actually she has an extra question. Okay, I guess my question is like, for example, after my first job I feel like I hate it. How's it like to go on the job market again after the first job? I mean the job market always sucks. Oh yeah, we should have acknowledged that. The job market sucks. Yeah. It's so dramatic. It's so dramatic. It's so dramatic. Yeah. And until you're interviewing your first time, those are actually kind of surprisingly fun. In honesty, like you never would expect it and it just is. It's because it's one of those things where like you've polished everything until like the nth degree and then you kind of just walk up and knock it out of the park for the most part. And people are largely excited to talk to you. Exactly. That's the root part. Yeah. You don't want to hear about your stuff now. It never happens again. Yes, exactly. Yeah. So like it's difficult, it's particularly difficult if you're trying to hide it from your institution. Cause it's like as the AEAs have kind of collapsed, it's like, okay, we need to do zoom interviews. And it's like, well, I can't take these from my office unless I want to give up the game or whatever. It's managing your teaching schedule and all your other duties while trying to be on the job market. Like they will not seem like it now, but you guys will never have as much free time as you guys have right now. And I didn't buy that when people told me that. And I was like, God, you know, people are wise or whatever. So you give wisdom away with time. But so it's like, it's difficult, but like you also have the benefit of I don't need a job. So therefore I can do a much more pared down search. And like, so that, you know, present concert or whatever. Relatedly, we've talked a few times about matching. The thing about going on the job market a second time is by that point you figured out what your preferences are a lot better. Like I, by the time I left, I was not crazy about my first job at the government commission. By the time I was done though, I also like knew what it was about that. I had sort of done enough full time. Okay, why am I unhappy? Okay, now I know what I'm looking for now for the next job. Also just to briefly sing the praises of government work. If you go working for the government, this will not be the most free time you'll ever have. So I mean. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When you don't realize, when I didn't realize while going on the market, I didn't always realize by talking to my fellow, with the folks from my cohort, is that assistant professors are expected to work a lot. If you're doing your teaching and you're supposed to get your research done, you're working very long hours. Also to keep in mind when you talk, when they tell you about amounts, percent of time for research at a government job, one, they're all one. But two, if you wanted to work like an assistant professor, you can get a ton of time for research. The thing about government jobs is they are 40 hour jobs. But there's a few exceptions where the agency's not working well. Mostly like, it's a 40 hour week job, when you're done with your day, you're done with your day. You can have hobbies. You can do them in every way. If you want to spend your extra time your evenings and weekends doing research, you can do that. You probably get a lot of publishing done. If you don't want to do that, want to have a life, you won't lose your job. You don't get a top five within six years. So it's, there are, any of you want one? A little bit. No, that's not the same as the other ones. You certainly make a lot more than you would at a liberal arts college. It's very, it's somewhat energy. It's actually surprising how energy you need to start working across the government. Weird aside, because like, theoretically, like most government jobs are on this GSP pay scale in the federal government. But like, how agencies implement that actually really varies from job to job. It's probably not a first interview question, but. I think you might ask. I mean, you're gonna fly up, they literally broke the number down at a government job. Oh yeah, they did. They split it across the table. It's on the website. Yeah. No, I mean, like when we start everyone at GS 1210, you can go on to the, to OPM's website. If you want a 1210 name, it's like, this is just, this is public information. The other thing about being in the government is that like, everyone knows your salary. You can go on the internet and find my salary. That's like, it's all public. Weird thing. Actually, it's true in a lot of states. Are you, yeah, public, private, where are you on the public-private-private formula? It actually doesn't matter. None of our salaries are public. I'll also say, sorry, because I realized, so the Federal Reserve is separate from a lot of these jobs. They can hire non-U.S. citizens. They pay incredibly well. Yes. And they have this sort of different balance between research time and work time, which can really vary. So for example, some friends who worked at the Fed, their sort of first year, they were given sort of free time and not doing a lot of like research, like policy-related work. And it was like, get your job working paper out, get stuff done, and it was sort of getting you acclimated to the kind of policy work that you would be doing for less year. And so their time has been sort of much more tied to the state of whatever, the part of the Fed that they're working in. So I was talking to a friend who works in board exchange job, and his life basically took like, it's taken like three weird turns since he graduated. Where it's just like, I'll drop everything at work, but for the most part, his time is fairly balanced, as opposed to like, I was talking to somebody who works in the banking side last week, and he was like, March of 2020, we were sort of like, collectively deciding with the lawyers what laws meant to figure out what kinds of credit facilities we were allowed to offer. That was apparently very stressful. More stressful than Silicon Valley Bank. That doesn't make this room, for him. He wasn't involved in that. No, so I think there's like, there's other parts of that, and so like talking to people, so like at Davis, there are multiple people who are also affiliated with the Fed, so talk to Sanjay, talk to Oscar, they're very nice. And sort of figure out, it's that some of those things would also be a good fit for you. They hire people who don't just do macro, right? Like not all the work's in the Fed. So I feel like I need to say that, because it's a little bit different than a federal government job. Yeah, so the Fed board usually is able to hire non-citizens. There's some process governing agencies we technically do to hire non-citizens, but it's so much work that it's never worth it. The board somehow managed to get around that. The Federal Reserve Bank are not actually technically government, even though, in many respects, everything we've been saying about government jobs absolutely applies to all the Fed banks, even though technically they are tied over to the state. A related thing is that don't, like if you're interested in government work, if you're interested in the kinds of things an agency does, don't assume that you win the event because you don't do what you think they do. So like the Federal Trade Commission, right? People assume like, okay, they do mergers, right? And so you think, okay, like if you do structural IO, they hire structural IO people. They hire structural IO, they hire a lot of labor economists who do diff and diff stuff because a lot of times, even on the merger side, the competition side of the shop, like they don't have time to estimate a structural model and a timeline set for a merger review. Like a diff and diff, like what's the effect of this entry on prices in the market? Like that's what they need so people can do those things. And so that's one particular example, but you might not know, ex ante, what the things they're looking for are. Your field might well be something that's of interest to, assuming that you are interested in the work, they do, because not everyone. But. At least, I was gonna say the FDIC like explicitly said in interviews, they were like, we don't care if you work on bank stuff already. That's fine. If you have data skills, go to data skills. Yeah, no, and then that's absolutely true of my, we want people who are interested in consumer finance and don't care if they have done anything in consumer finance before. I certainly had never done anything in consumer finance before I hired me. I did environmental energy stuff before. I came in with a little bit of a big role. It's also to an industry, and these guys in care really get there. They're like, oh, so you can do data analysis? We're gonna teach you to do exactly what it is we wanna do, and that's that. I just wanna say, like all this super helpful stuff, it's US focused. I know there are a lot of people who might not be going, and I just wanted to say, the timing can be different, but one of the big things that you wanna keep in mind, I know it affected me, you should look at things that you would not have otherwise thought of with certain countries, like visa requirements, especially if you have a partner who may not be able to get the visa that you think you want, and then all of a sudden you come out of the job market, you turn down other offers, and you're like, oh, this isn't gonna work. So those are the sorts of things that I never thought to consider, but it's worth doing that probably before all the jobs are posted, but if you're like, I might be willing to go to this country, find out what the cost of working is, find the tax set, find the visa information before the market, because you won't have time when you're in the market. Two minutes, so do we wanna just take rapid fires? Are there any remaining burning questions or are we killing the polls? We also have a walkover. Yeah. I don't know, I'm walking. Anybody has fast questions while we're walking? I'm a very short answer question. So what's the publishing requirements in the government job? That's not very good. They say you need to have hope. Do you need more focus on the policy stuff than the policy aside? My new is I am supposed to put out a working paper a year, I'm encouraged to get it published, and if I don't do that, then my bonus is a little smaller. I don't have anything. Yeah, it's encouraged to get stuff published, but if I didn't, they didn't give me more policy work. Okay, I'm gonna end by saying something someone told me when they hired me. A theoretical econometrician who had been on leave when I got hired, he goes, I heard that you went to Davis, and Davis people know how to do applied work and I love that, so remember that! So I'm gonna take you to Davis. And it's also worth noting we have a really big alumni network, and you can look on the website and see where everybody has been placed over the last X number of years, email them and be like, hey, I see you are in government, how did you get there? Or, and they don't reply, whatever, but we're good people, we work for our best. And then exhale. Yes, thank you. That is a couple of people out, setting up the table.